boom here we go
what's up Glenn how are you man hey Joe
nice to meet you person good to come
down here
good to meet you dude you uh you're one
of my favorite characters on that show
that was uh it was always weird watching
you people don't know where to like
below zero
it's um this crazy show where people
live you know in this very rugged
terrain and you you would you had the
most interesting life because you when
you would live up at the cabin you would
live by yourself
just you in a very small room just
hunting all your food and and then
hiking around you didn't use any
vehicles and he just kind of had a rifle
and a frying pan and a pot and a place
to sleep and you seem really happy up
there oh yeah I'm having a good time
I just wanted to strip everything away
that I could dispense with you know I
got the idea I wanted to go back to
living like a hunter-gatherer back in 97
I just got this idea I was actually
living in a tent in the woods down in
Vermont having such a good time I
thought where could I go with this what
could I do with this kind of lifestyle
and I decided to move to the Brooks
Range of Alaska
what was it like so--you what made you
go live in a tent in the first place I
just always liked the outdoors I just
loved nature and you know I was doing
other things too but there was this this
one summer when I was in my 20s when I
found this really cool spot in the woods
and I thought hey I'll set up a tepee
over there and I'll just hang out there
this summer as much as I can and I just
had a great time so I started thinking
more about you know instead of just
living in the woods kind of as a
recreational thing I started thinking
about hey how could you actually make a
life living like this you know get up
every morning with the animals around
the sky the water I started thinking
about I started reading anthropological
stuff about hunter-gatherers that summer
and I started getting ideas and it it
took me seven years to make it to the
Brooks Range and to get out to that lake
that you've seen on TV and to actually
start living that way it took me a few
years just to organize my life enough to
move up to Alaska and then once I got to
Alaska I was kind of in Fairbanks
for years before I could really spend
long periods of time in the wilderness
but once I got it all arranged I just
drove up the haul road which is this
industrial road that goes up to the
North Slope oil fields it's very very
unimproved in areas just gravel road for
hundreds of miles I drove about 300
miles north of Fairbanks I parked my van
and I walked 60 miles off of that road
by myself out into the wilderness and
started figuring out how to live off the
land how did you know where to go oh I
had found the spot a few years before I
had actually found that Lake flying
around in a little bush plane because
part of my plan originally when I
formulated this idea back in Vermont I
thought I'll become a bush pilot that'll
be a thing I can do in Alaska you know
hmm so I was thinking about starting an
air taxi service I had been studying
flying for a few years as soon as I got
my private license I jumped in the plane
to flew to Alaska but then when I got up
there I was getting my commercial and
all that and in the meantime as much as
I could I'd go out and explore look
around and I discovered this lake one
day when I was flying across part of the
Brooks Range and I set up a little tent
camp there that summer mm but it took me
another 4 years before I could actually
walk out there and start living 60 miles
walkin yeah that's a long fucking way
hey I walked the length of Vermont when
I was 13 years old that walk did you
really must use this to Canada but the
difference is when you're 13 yeah I
actually started when I was 12 gave up
the next I was with my uncle we went for
about a week and then the next summer I
convinced my mom to drive me back down
and dropped me off alone where we had
given up the year before but uh I'll
just you by yourself yeah when I was 13
I was alone but that's a trail that's
called the long trail and it's marked
there's a little paint mark you know on
the trees up but how do you tell
anywhere to go
yeah Brooks right now you were 13 yeah
that's a little kid yeah
and your mom's like go good it was
amazing I was given a lot of freedom I
guess so I mean I had already quit
school by the time I was 13 you know
really I went back a few times but yeah
I mean I I never I never finished the
fourth grade to tell you the truth but I
went to one year high school
eventually less curious about what's
going on over there did you ever get a
GED or any of that jazz no I never
needed a GED for anything I did but I
went to ninth grade and you know I did
my own thing after that but you seem
like an educated guy do yourself
educated if I get any education itself
educated you I just I like to be
learning all the time whatever I'm doing
I like to learn but if I'm making a TV
show I want to learn everything I can
about it you know if I'm flying
airplanes I want to learn a lot more
than I need to know to do what I'm doing
and it's the same thing with going out
there and living just learning as much
as I could there's so much so much to
learn out there now how long did it take
you when you're 13 and like what did you
do for food oh well that was easy
bite at the store and carried on your
back I never hunted when I was a kid oh
okay I mean I remember going once or
twice with some uncle's of mine we never
got anything I never I didn't have any
real hunting experience until that
summer I walked out to the lake really
yeah so you really just had a rifle and
I don't quite know what you were doing
I'd read a lot about what to do
the biggest thing Joe I got out there I
had two months food I left two months
worth of food at the lake okay to get me
started and I walked out there in July
pausing for a second when you say two
months food like what did you bring oh I
had left
basic stuff grains like you know some
beans some rice the stuff that you knew
you could serve a jug of oil you know
basic some flour was out there and I
left that the year before when I had a
plane my whole plan to become air taxi
and and do the bush flying I at that
time I realized this doesn't go together
with living off the land in the
wilderness so I actually sold that plane
that summer and drove up the road and
walked out to where I had left these
supplies the year before and decided
that's what I really wanted to just go
live off the land
mm-hm I don't know I don't need an
airplane anymore I don't need to fly so
when I got out there I had there was a
55-gallon barrel and it had some food
and it had a few supplies
I had a tent you know it was insulated
but it hadn't really become a cabin yet
it's the same place that you've seen but
it it was just a little less a little
less solid back then and the cabin as it
stands you built yeah well I flew in the
plywood and stuff and then when I get
out there I put I put I had a walton
originally I'd had a tent camp out there
since 2000 I built a plywood cabin under
the wall town basically that's what I do
but when I get out there I had some food
I had my rifle I had fishing equipment I
started living I started improving that
little cabin you know and by September I
ran out of food like completely I had
one bag of flour this little plastic bag
of flour it was all I had left when it
got cold enough that I figured I could
start moose hunting
so that was my plan I got to get a moose
why'd you have to wait till it got cold
his regulations bugs you got to preserve
the meat I've got no freezer all right I
had you know I had to wait until like I
still do when I hunt moose my moose
hunting season starts the day I can
leave a piece a scrap of meat out on the
ground all afternoon and go look at it
there's no fly eggs on it mmm that makes
sense
wow that's crazy so you have to other
than the rifle aspect of it you mean
you're really living like a primitive
hunter-gatherer I would have used a bow
and arrow if I thought I could have
survived there's your spot right there
there it is Hey well if you only want to
gather me the rifle is the way to go you
know I was always trying to just let go
of everything I could I could do without
but I never got to the point where I
thought I could make it with just a bow
and arrow myself you know people used to
survive out there before they even had
archery they survived out there with
spears but there were groups of people
they would build a fence they would
Corral the animals yeah they would put
nooses up between trees to get a moose
things like that there's also probably a
lot more animals I don't know that to be
the case
maybe not Alaska Alaska probably not too
much different but throughout North
America look if you listen to or you
read rather the tales of
Boone and credible in Crockett the Lewis
and Clark when they made their way
across the country like they found a lot
of game there was a lot of animals I
mean it was just an abundance of animals
and then of course if they ran into
Buffalo obviously there was millions and
millions of Buffalo unbelievable that's
the difference between Alaska and down
here down here with modified ever since
yeah we've paved everything over
Alaska's still wild northern Alaska is
the most wild place left in this country
that's why I went there
it's barely this country - I mean it's
not even attached yes some people don't
really think of Alaska's United States
it's not but it's not it's a frozen
Puerto Rico its way up there it's it's
not even connected to us it's one of
those weird ones but it is wild and and
you see actually that's what drew me to
it the first time I ever saw the Brooks
Range was years before I moved to Alaska
I was on a flight I used to get jobs as
a courier when I was in my 20s I was
real interested in traveling and I found
out this way I could travel all over the
world as a courier so I would go to New
York City I'd get these jobs as a
freelance career and take off to
wherever they needed me to go and one
time I got this flight to Tokyo and I'm
flying right across the whole length of
the Brooks Range great circle route New
York Tokyo takes you right across it 600
miles of mountains from the Canadian
border over to the Chukchi Sea across
from Siberia and there's one road across
it in 600 miles and I was just glued to
the window the whole flight looking at
that Wow I thought someday I'm gonna go
check that place out on the ground you
know I mean it's incredible when you see
those mountains they're big mountains
they're up to 9,000 feet high and that
one rose the haul road yeah the haul
road also known as the Dalton Highway
that was built in 1974 just to construct
the Alaska Pipeline to get to the oil up
at Prudhoe Bay on the North Slope the
oil fields up there they built that road
in one summers amazing story in itself
Wow yeah they started in April and they
had the whole thing done in one summer
from the Yukon River all the way up to
the Arctic Ocean so when you got down to
one bag of flour yeah was there a part
in your head were you like what what am
I doing here no I never wondered
I was doing no no yeah oh it always felt
right for you oh yeah what I was doing
there was looking for a moose yeah and
you already had that hole shed built
yeah for me oh there's no shed for me
well what's that thing that you do well
you have everything like the sock
covered up the sod house ya know that
came here that came like four years
later yeah no no I didn't have that yet
I didn't even have a meat Pole really no
I built the meat poll after I got the
moose the same meat bullet still there
that you seen is 20 feet high and I
built that with a piece of parachute
cord and a little block and tackle that
you can fit in the palm of your hand
they just had parachute cord around it
and I had to get well that big it's I'm
actually talking about that platform
that's right beside the meat pole right
the meat poles 20 feet high plus explain
to people what a meat pole is so that
they know just that's like my freezer I
don't have a freezer out there so I just
hang meat up and I live in the freezer
the Arctic's your freezer from September
until usually sometime in May I can keep
meat with out anything other than the
open air around it it's a long time yeah
it's most of the year yeah the lakes
only thought out from June until most
years around the 1st of October it
freezes over so you get about four
months open water about eight months of
ice
so you're basically living off a fish
for those months no there there was one
year when I caught a lot of fish there
because I stayed there I stayed there
one time 15 months without going to town
and by yourself no I was only there for
four months totally by myself but I'm
not totally crazy I went back out and
and I got my woman to come in there with
me after she stole I got divorced from
her later but but actually no I most of
the time I've been out there have had a
family uh with me most of the time I
went out there you know
I actually was I I got married before I
went out there I went out there for four
months I went back I got sylvia my
ex-wife and we were out there for years
you know we would go back and forth we
would go to Fairbanks for six months or
sometimes a year would go out there for
a year you know we would go back and
forth and then what happened was after
we split up I was out there one winner
totally alone and that's when I got on
the show right after that it all just
the timing was perfect that I'm up there
by myself I'm living real close to the
land
I mean I'm sleeping under caribou hides
that winter and I'm eating just caribou
like I had a little tiny bit of
store-bought food with me hardly
anything and I hadn't seen a human being
in four and a half months and the
executive producer the show flies from
LA all the way up there to meet me in
lands and it was they know you were
there the summer before I was in
Fairbanks and for a few years I was
trying to figure out how can I share
this stuff I'm experiencing because it's
incredible I'm just I'm realizing that
this is not ordinary life anymore and
there are a lot of people that don't
even realize what's going on out here in
the middle of the wilderness so I'm
talking to people I'm trying to find
some kind of a filmmaker or somebody and
I don't know anything about it but I'm
trying to find somebody to help me do
something like a documentary or
something like this so my friends know
this somebody handed me a email address
they said you should write to this
person they're looking for people like
you they told me it was a filmmaker I
didn't know what it was I sent off an
email I said hi you know I live in the
wilderness I'd like to talk to you about
if you're interested in making a
documentary and a few days later I
started walking from the road again to
get back to my camp so I left them a
satellite phone number I said this is my
only means of communication it's a
satellite phone I don't keep it turned
on because it runs on a battery you can
send a message to it I check it once in
a while it's basically from her
he's only but you can communicate with
me this way and I put that in the email
how to do it well that whole winner went
by eight months went by I hadn't heard
from then I'd forgotten about that
person that sent emails to a lot of
people and then one day I turned on my
phone is this message there they want to
talk to me so I called them up and we
start talking and they tell me it's a
reality TV show and I had literally
never seen a reality TV show in my life
I hadn't watched TV for many many years
and so you had no idea what that even
meant not really I talked to him about
that but they mostly didn't they mostly
wanted to talk about me not about them
and I kept trying to get information
like what is this exactly right you know
and because I kept I remember I kept
saying what I really want to do I want
to talk about nature out here and
they're like well we don't want to make
a show about nature will make a show
about you but in any case I learned what
reality TV was over the next few months
because after we talked for two weeks
the executive producer flew all the way
up from LA he flew from Fairbanks on a
little ski plane out there to meet me
and he landed it meant me to make sure
that I wasn't the biggest bullshitter
they'd ever talked to they had no idea I
mean they're just talking on satellite
phone and I was telling him okay you
know right now I'm living off these to
care but I killed last month and and
they came out there and they saw that it
was real and they were like yeah we want
you in the show Wow
in a few weeks later we were making TV
so they had to come out just to check to
see if your story was legit yeah we
actually like yeah yeah the actual lake
were you living I couldn't give him
references I mean I was all alone out
there wow that must have been very
surreal for you the guy lands out there
some Hollywood jackoff comes out to
visit it was great it was like getting
out solitaire I hadn't seen anybody four
and a half months that's a long time but
I say Jack remain with all due respect I
just mean a Hollywood person you know
like a la television producer flies out
to meet you when you're doing your
wilderness thing like what a convergence
of worlds there's no world that's more
removed
from the world of living by yourself in
the woods then Hollywood that's like the
most opposite of it in some ways but
we're all human
yes we're all human and we had a great
afternoon together we had an awesome
afternoon together so you take them and
show them your routes and all the places
where you go it was in April I had a
packed trail on the snow that's still
winter where I am and I took him out for
a walk up onto a mountainside so he
could get a view of the whole country
there and it just happened that the
first grizzly tracked I'd seen that
spring that had come out of hibernation
was right there in front of us that the
bear had hit my trail and was walking
down my pack trail right in front of us
it was that day totally fresh track so
that was exciting
and did you see the bear no we didn't
see the bear it headed up the mountain I
was walking a lot faster than we were
but we saw a lot of beautiful things
that day and you know he shot a sizzle
reel and he brought it back for the
network to see and everything Wow
so what were you thinking when the guy
left like I was thinking this game that
was fun
cool I got to show somebody around out
here you know because other than my
immediate family that had been there
with me my wife and and we had two kids
by then you know that they hadn't been
there since the year before but nobody
had ever seen it with me I I never had
had anybody out there to to walk
anywhere all these years by the time
this happened I'd been out there for
nine years off and on you know I'd had
my camp out there since 2000 actually
and I'd been kind of living there at
least half the time for nine years I'd
gotten to know that country so well all
the mountains I've walked some days 2025
miles over 5,000 foot mountains and
everything hunting sheep hunting caribou
and just looking around trapping
sometimes but always alone why was this
life so appealing to you from such a
young age like the fact that you're
you're 13 years old you make that walk
all the way across Vermont
but I mean that's that's a law
as walk you know I grew up in a small
town right near the base of the highest
mountain in Vermont now Mansfield and
some of my earliest memories are looking
at that mountain wanting to go up there
and I got to the top of mountain by the
time I was 9 but it took me 9 years just
get up there things take time it's like
so this just always been something
that's you're drawn to I guess some
reason you're drawn to being in the
wilderness I'm drawn to a lot of things
but the wilderness is definitely one of
them when you get there do you feel like
everything's right like when you finally
got to your place and you finally
started when you walked 60 miles out
there and started living did you finally
feel like I'm in my spot this is where
I'm supposed to be oh yeah like you knew
I had literally been planning to do
exactly that in the Brooks Range for
seven years like that's what I was doing
every day was preparing to do that Wow
but what was it about it that was so
compelling like why was that a thing
that you were so drawn to because when I
was living in the woods before that when
I was in the tepee in Vermont every
single day I'd wake up with a smile on
my face
I'd just be excited what was going on
get up look out see the fog coming up
off the water on the lake you know oh
wow there's something over there there's
a loon whatever it is there's I was just
excited about what was going on out
there and I just felt really connected
to it and there are a lot of really
positive aspects to being out in the
woods I mean just the physical part like
I like to stay in shape I like to be
active and you can't help but be active
out there you can't help but stay in
shape I like the diet I mean once I
started eating animals I killed myself
and food that I collected myself you
know plant food - it was that's the best
food I ever ate in my life when I ate
that first moose I kill I mean I never
had anything better
crazy way to live man it's interesting
because most people would tell you hey
you got to get a job you got a you got
to be a normal person you can't just go
out there and live yeah yeah well and
that's what I told him I said I'm gonna
make a career out of this now I didn't
know exactly how it was gonna play out
but I was always confident that it was a
valuable thing to do and that it would
not only benefit me but in the long run
that I would be able to share this with
people and it would pay off and it did
it just took time now what did you do
for money what I did for money was two
things one is I didn't go out there till
I was 30 years old I didn't go to Alaska
till I was 30 years old I had to have
some savings and number two is I
arranged everything in my life so I had
literally no expenses or almost no
expenses I didn't have I never had any
debt I didn't have student loan like I
said I left school early I didn't have a
mortgage when I got to Fairbanks I found
one acre of land on the edge of town for
$6,500 I built a little log cabin myself
200 square feet no plumbing just a wood
stove to heat it with I lived in a tent
all winter before that cabin was done 40
below zero that wasn't easy and that was
right on the edge of town and then moved
into that cabin I had everything
arranged I got a vehicle but it was all
paid off when I went to the Brooks Range
I literally didn't have any expenses
except about $300 property tax a year
for that little cabin in Fairbanks what
were you doing for jobs before that you
said you worked as a courier I did a lot
of courier flying that was mainly
because I wanted to travel mm-hmm but
when I was in my 20s I was managing some
real estate in Vermont it was Timberland
and that wasn't something that I was
interested in doing as a long-term
career but I was able to make some money
from that and then the next thing that I
was planning to do was to get into the
aviation but the thing with the aviation
is if you're gonna have an air taxi
service you're not going to be living
out in the bush I didn't realize that
when I started down that path you see I
also did a lot of other preparation in
terms of studying
one of the things I did too was I made
these shorter forays into the wilderness
the first place was in northern Canada
and I went up to northern Quebec five
different times one time my girlfriend
at the time and I we spent six weeks
canoeing across a part of northern
Quebec never saw a single person six
weeks during that canoe trip we would
see these small planes flying over and
that's when I started getting the idea
these little float planes I started
thinking okay I'm gonna become a pilot
that's one reason it took me seven years
to move to Alaska because I had to study
aviation there was a lot of different
things I had to do but that's when I got
that idea after that trip to Canada I
started studying flying and that did
slow me down moving to Alaska but that
was a good thing too because now I can
actually afford an airplane I just got
back into flying last year and the next
stage of my life I think that's going to
be quite important so when you first got
there and you you set up your your Shack
you're you're living out there you're
hunting food and did you feel like I
mean this has been something that was
like a calling for you
for a long time I got a feel very
strange that you were actually making it
happen like it must have felt cool oh it
always does when you do something you've
been dreaming about for a long time like
what was it like to wake up there and go
I'm actually doing it like this crazy
pipe dream of living in the woods next
to a lake now it's real yeah yeah and I
was I just felt super fortunate that's
still how I feel like all these things
that I've experienced out there I
realize how few people in this day ever
get to experience these things oh yeah I
mean you're you're right next to grizzly
bears wolves grizzly bears Wolverines
these animals inhabit the same area that
I do and I have a lot of interactions
with them because I'm out there so much
you know over the years a lot of things
have happened I've spent a lot of time
around wolves amazing things you know
that if you had asked me I never would
have thought would have happened could
happen I mean depend times when I ran
out of food and I've literally tracked
wolves and taken food away from them
when they've killed caribou why yeah how
many wolves were there one time there
was a lone wolf that got a caribou just
ahead of me he didn't have time to do
anything except got it for me literally
that's what they start eating is the
guts and he had opened up its belly and
pulled the guts out and the whole
caribou was there Wow
what happened that day I was really
hungry I we had run out of food I was
out there with my ex-wife and we had and
your kids had one baby at the time so
you're out there with a baby and you
don't have food the baby was fine she
was nursing yeah well we always had
something to eat just not enough but I
never ever had been out there when I
didn't have something to eat every
single day some days it was just one
rabbit some days it was just one time
again which is very little food but I've
always been able to get something to eat
but this particular year it was kind of
early on this was the winter 2006-2007
hadn't been out there that long made a
miscalculation I was counting on caribou
showing up because so far I'd always
seen a lot of care but in the winter
that one of the income if I had known I
could have prevented a situation but we
had taken one moose in the fall I'd
killed a moose in September and I
thought man we got 500 pounds of meat
we're set the caribou will come later in
the winter but it's amazing how much
meat you can eat when you're not eating
much of anything else hmm
and all that I was eaten at that time
really was meat fat and maybe a cup of
berries a day you know that I had
gathered in the fall and froze so the
moose we went through that pretty fast
found out that two adults can eat a
large ball moose in three months if
that's all you got to eat i i've eaten
by myself of a large bull moose in six
months yeah for people that know no
large bull moose is about 2,000 pounds i
don't think they're quite that big what
they're probably
1800 pound you probably get 500 pounds
Oh a Yukon moose is like 2,000 pounds
with people people know they exaggerate
a lot of things yo so but I feel like a
60-inch bull how much does that guy yes
I'm like that's actually what that ball
was it was about 60 inch Wow
that one was actually 57 if I remember I
don't pay too much attention to the
exact measurements but somewhere in the
range of 1500 pounds which is like what
how many pounds of meat you think that
is I would guess that you probably are
getting 5 600 pounds of meat there are
you taking the the femurs and getting
bone marrow out of them and doing all
that job oh yeah oh yeah that's that's
really important part of of my diet when
I'm living off an animal is I like
variety and they analyzed a ton of
variety in it one caribou will give you
so many different options in terms of
food if you know how to utilize it I've
eaten everything I have a caribou except
the poop literally you can even eat part
of the antlers when their own oh yeah
and the spring when they're growing
they're soft on the ends it's like a
pickle you skin them you take the velvet
off in the last inch or two it's just
it's got the consistency of a pickle
they're great really eat it raw yeah I
had a lot of animals ride a lot of parts
of a caribou raw but anyway you get a
lot of variety eat all the organs eat
the eyes eat the brain you live with the
brain oh yeah really spinal cord whoa
like I said I've eaten everything except
the poop out of a care but literally I
mean you can even the cartilage you can
get all kinds of variety and it's
nutritious is good for you I mean I
learned about all this from the old
people that used to eat this way I went
to I would have been reluctant to eat
certain things if I hadn't been educated
by other people that you can do this I
was talking this 9 year old woman in
Fairbanks you know and I asked her so
you eat the brains cuz I'm thinking you
know mad cow disease
prions oh yeah the brains are great and
then I did a little research they've
never found prion ik disease in Alaska
and any of the animals up there this is
like starting the brain that's an issue
that's happening more and more here in
the lower 48 you're getting a lot of CWD
which is
the prion disease very scary stuff you
know it's there's parts of Wisconsin
where my friend Doug durin lives where
you know 50% of the deer they they test
test positive for CWD yeah
which is a real fatal disease and hasn't
made the jump to humans yet but they're
very concerned and you know this is
coming from the deer like you said
there's a lot of deer and where deer and
moose live together the moose get it we
don't have any deer
so other than moose and caribou that's
why we don't have the periodic disease
and have no deer up there at all
well moose or caribou or deer but we
don't have anything other than moose and
you have black tail which those are much
further south down in southeast Alaska I
don't know their exact range but nowhere
near where I am that's interesting it's
too harsh of a country they don't it
doesn't not the right habitat Wow
so you when you take this caribou away
from the wolf how does that go down what
happened that day was uh thanks for mind
me I'd forgotten that story I had a
trail up the mountain there's a lot of
snow in the winter you know two three
feet of snow so you gotta have packed
trails to walk efficiently pack them
down snow shoes and stuff and pretty
much follow the same routes I'm
following my trail to go up the mountain
looking for food that day and I came on
there were no caribou I couldn't find a
caribou anywhere I didn't see caribou
track for like months they're migratory
and if they happen to migrate ten miles
away I'm not gonna see him that's out of
my range I come on a track of one
caribou its wounded it's bleeding it's
being chased by one wolf and it crosses
my trail so I start chasing it was real
fresh it was snowing out and I could
tell this has just happened this injured
caribou this wolf is chasing it up this
mountain they're right ahead of me I've
got to follow this so you have a rival
yeah yeah my rifle my constant companion
I mean like that rifle goes just about
everywhere I go out there so I start
just jogging up the mountain as fast so
I can go it's 5,000 foot mountain
this this caribou is wounded pretty
badly he's bleeding almost continuously
you know and it's clear to me that if he
doesn't make it over the top of that
amount and this Wolves gonna get him I
mean going down the other side I don't
know but this wolf has a good chance to
get in this caribou this is usually the
way that they injure them and it takes
time it's not like they just run up and
knock them down
you know usually hamstring right you
know they they'll jump on their back
they um I see a lot of them injured on
the the big muscle right here on the
back legs that what you mean hamstring
yeah right in here yeah yeah they'll get
him in there you find a lot of caribou
injured real bad that get away mmm they
get away with big pieces of hide ripped
off of I killed a caribou once that only
had two good legs it couldn't even walk
anymore
Wow but anyway I start chasing them up
the hill that kind of zigzagging up the
hill and this caribou obviously doesn't
know this mountain it doesn't know where
it's going it heads in a direction where
there's some cliffs on the other side of
this Ridge and I'm getting real hopeful
at this point and I still haven't seen
them they're there ahead of me on the
mountain and sure enough the tracks come
right up to the edge of the cliff both
the caribou and the wolf and go right
over the top of the cliff and I'm like
there's no way that care we survived
getting down because I know this
mountain like the back of my hand and I
just sat down there and I listened and I
sat there at the top of the cliff and
sure enough it's real quiet out there in
the winter the Arctic is just like dead
silent and I start hearing the crunching
in the snow of this wolf he's down in
the ravine and he knows I'm up there he
can sense that I'm up there at the top
of the cliff and he wants to to bug out
of there at that point and he just
walked up the other side of the ravine
I'm looking across the ravine and I see
the wolf going up and I know hey that
carrot was down in that ravine somewhere
so he's just getting away from you yeah
did they already know you by then
because you you had shot quite a few
wolves right you had trapped a few I
shot a few not tons
we shot a few on the show that one time
on the lake it's frozen and yeah I
didn't have a cameraman with me that was
actually that story was told on the show
and I documented it a little bit as much
as I could with my little camera at the
time that day I shot three walls but
that was a very unusual situation that
was those walls were actually trying to
get me which is almost unheard of but
this was years before that this wolf and
like almost every other wolf encounter
I've ever had every other wolf encounter
I've ever had the wolf wants nothing to
do with you I mean the wolf knows I'm
dangerous and how do they know you're
dangerous are they having any
interactions with other humans wolves
know this all across North America I've
only been able to find two documented
bonafide II cases where wolves have
killed humans in North America in recent
times it was this one guy young guy up
in Saskatchewan several years ago there
was one woman in Alaska apparently was
killed by wolves it almost never happens
they just know that people are dangerous
they've been persecuted I mean there
were bounties on wolves I think it's in
their DNA now hmm you know all wild
animals grizzly bears they don't want
anything to do with people 99.9 percent
of the time it's interesting you saying
that grizzly bears where they're hunted
don't want to anything to do with people
right they're having a real problem with
grizzly bears in places like Montana
where they don't hunt them right where
they don't have any fear many many
generations of no fear of human beings
and you're getting a lot of maulings cuz
that yeah I wouldn't be crazy about
walking out in national park where
you're not allowed to bring a gun yeah
well my Montana in particular there's
they have a lot but in this case the
wolf wanted out of there it walked up
the other side of the ravine I watched
it it was about three four hundred yards
from me when he got up to the top of the
ridge
he stopped way way up high above I
remember looking at him through
binoculars or maybe it was the scope of
my rifle I just remember him given a
yell he lay down on the ground
when he knew he was safe way up there
and he just gave her yawn and I could
see his tongue it was just like a dog
him give this yawn like he had just
climbed up this big mountain in about
ten minutes you know
so I just walked around the cliff went
down in there got that caribou I
actually made a backpack out of this rib
cage to carry at home and it was cold it
was like 25 below that was pretty brutal
getting I think you know back to the
camp from up on the mountain there
how have you was it I don't know I a lot
of things I don't wait but I'd say a
caribou like that probably weighs about
250 pounds something like that you know
I obviously don't take all of that
weight at one time with me I've carry as
much as I can
did you have a backpack that like a pack
frames I had a frame and I just stuffed
everything in the remember it was so
cold and I was so tired up there running
up this mountain the one it's dark it's
dark a building there's no Sun in the
winter I just remember getting the head
off that thing throwing the legs and
stuff in the in the ribcage and throwing
it onto that frame I had and it was all
inside of the big rib cage still had the
skin on it and everything was the wolf
watching the whole time he was up on top
of the mountain I didn't I wasn't paying
close attention to him after that and
how long you hang out up there I would
think that you would want to keep an eye
on that fucker wolves I spent a lot of
time on the walls this isn't a lot of
time when the snow conditions are just
right you can actually keep up with
Wolves believe it or not I've stayed
with Wolves all day long going eight or
ten miles when the snow is deep enough
they start walking single file in every
wolf in the pack steps in exactly the
same track and their stride when they
slow down to a walk like that is just
right for me I can step right in their
tracks I don't even need snowshoes if
there's less snow you can't you can't
keep up with the wolf you know their
normal gait their trotting you can't
even come close to that speed but when
the snow gets deep and they get
single-file if you're in good shape
you can jog behind wolves all day long
and I followed wolves I followed a pack
of 12 volts one time 8 or 10 miles they
were hunting caribou right in front of
me there was another time I remember
taking care boomy away from a pack of
wolves which I didn't even see they had
killed the caribou but you know there's
a lot of brush and different stuff
around
I discovered it because Ravens flew up
off that I went over there and judging
by the tracks they're half a dozen
rolls around I took that caribou that
time brought it home and ate it but I
had a lot of interactions over the years
of the wolves and I never had wolves act
aggressive to me I've had a Mac curious
I've had a Mac scared I've had him act
indifferent I never had wolves act
aggressive to me until that time January
2012 when a pack of twenty wolves
literally took after me out on the lake
and I did shoot three of those wolves
and what was that about why do you think
they were taken after you it was a very
unusual situation first of all there
were 20 wolves in one place that's
unheard of up there that's totally
unheard of the largest pack of wolves
I've ever heard a count of that far
north was 17 wolves and I was back in
the 1970s usually there's five six
wolves and a pack up there it's real
hungry country it's hard for them to
feed themselves with the pack gets
bigger than that they have to split up
go somewhere new but I don't know what
happened that year I don't know if two
packs combined I don't know if the pack
just grew to that size but it was
unheard of anyway I'm up on a mountain I
look down at the lake it's in January
it's just Twilight in the middle of day
I see this big brown spot on the ice I'm
like what the hell's that it's like out
in front of my cabin about 500 yards big
brown spot first I thought it was water
overflow that comes up through the ice
sometimes when you get a crack I got the
binoculars I'm looking in holy cow
that's a giant pack of wolves that just
took something down on the lake I can
see like one of those breaking off one
of them's breaking off and then coming
back over and I I realized what's going
on there was very little snow that year
even though it was January it had been
cold since September but very little
precipitation it was only about maybe
four or five inches of snow so I could
literally run down the mountain I was
down at the lake within 20 minutes and I
went right to my cabin I got my camera I
got my tripod I'm like this is
phenomenal I got a document this and I
start walking across the lake out to
where they are to get pictures of this
so I get about 350 yards from these
walls I still don't know what the animal
is that they got there and you know I
can hear them you can hear bones
breaking and stuff the wolf
it's just amazing yeah and I start
taking pictures and I run out of
batteries I'm like oh shit I ran out of
batteries so I gotta go back to the
cabin that's like 150 yards behind me
you know and I turn around I start
walking back to cabin
when I get about 30 yards or so from the
cabin I look back over my shoulder and
the whole goddamn pack of wolves is
racing across the lake straight toward
me I'd never seen anything like it I
sprinted like Jesse Owens through the
door that cabin I was only 30 yards from
it I turn and I look back out the window
and these wolves came right up into my
yard they were 50 yards from the front
door 20 walls whoa yeah like this is
unheard of wolves are usually
hightailing it out of there when they
see people so I get my new batteries I
get the camera set back up I go back out
by the time I get back out in the yard
they're back over at this thing they've
killed like 500 yards away and I want to
get more pictures of this I got my rifle
too of course so I start heading back
over when I get about 350 yards from
them I start taking more pictures I got
a great picture you could pull it up
maybe yeah I'm gonna see that it's in
the note section on my facebook page as
a story and unusual occurrence with the
Wolves anyway they're all eaten and I
start taking pictures again and after I
take some pictures first one and two
then three the Wolves they're like I can
see they stopped eating in there looking
at the other 350 yards away but I can
just see that they noticed that I'm back
out there on the lake and they're sizing
me up kind of and then I see some of
them are just really slowly moving
toward me like walking a few steps and
stop and I'm thinking yeah I got my
rifle and everything but there's a lot
of wolves there how do I know they're
gonna stop when I start shooting you
know so I decided maybe his best just
make a slow retreat and I started
backing up and walking back toward the
cabin and the Wolves it looked like they
were slowly walking towards me as I'm
walking toward the cabin when I got
about if I remember right it was a
hundred yards from the cabin
those wolves started galloping they just
all 20 wolf started galloping towards me
oh wow yeah those wolves right there
they start galloping towards me and I
dropped that tripod right there where
where I was and I you know I was a
hundred yards from the cabin they were
four hundred yards from me and I ran as
fast as I could for the cabin because I
thought hey if I start shooting what if
they don't stop the ones it's 20 wolves
there I got right four or five rounds of
if I had one in the chamber I had five
rounds they ammunition I ran for the
cabin I go in the door and just like the
time before they're right there in my
front yard I look out in there 50 yards
away they're all milling around 20
wolves I'm like Jesus Christ this is
amazing I've never seen anything like
this so but I'm safe and sound in the
cabin so I just collect my thoughts I'm
like man it's time to teach these walls
a lesson if I let those walls leave now
they're gonna think I'm just food I run
away when they see me right now that I
mean I could be out there in the night
in the dark not even know wolves are
around getting ambushed by him or
something so I had to shoot some of
those walls so I loaded up got made sure
everything was perfectly right you know
put some extra ammunition in my pocket
checked everything out okay I'm set to
go out there with this gun and and talk
to these wolves about the situation and
I go back out and they were back at the
moose it turned out to be a moose they'd
killed they were back over there at the
kill so I thought well it'd be a lot
safer if I shot from close to the cabin
you know rather than go out there on the
open ice so I'll just see if I can lure
him back over here and I started running
back and forth right in front of my
cabin on the on the ice just to get
their attention and sure enough it
worked that whole pack of 20 wolves
started racing across that Lake and a
full gallop straight toward me I
couldn't believe it I was right in front
of my cabin I just run back and forth
like 50 yards out to my little water
hole in the ice and back to the cabin a
few times and they just started running
right at me so I sat right down there on
the bank on the shore right you know 15
feet in front of my porch and started
shooting
I think if I remember right the first
one I hit was 264 yards I measured it
all off the next day it was kind of
interesting just checking out the tracks
and seeing what had happened I hit three
of them yeah what happened when one got
hit they stopped at the closest tracks
to me were about 40 yards you know what
if when it was happening it was it was
happening so fast
I was just sitting down you know braced
shooting
I remember reloading after I shot five
times it all happened so fast
but then the next day when I had time I
went out there and looked at all the
tracks and measured everything insides
up a situation figured out where I'd hit
different wolves and stuff and I wrote
that all down that's what I was
mentioning in the notes section err my
Facebook page that story because I
wanted when it was fresh in my mind to
really have the details because I knew
right then that something happened to me
that doesn't really happen to people I
mean to get have a pack of wolves come
after you is a a very unusual occurred
you could read you can read all over the
place that wolves don't attack humans
you know I've read that many times but
they have they have only technically
historically historically a whole little
red riding-hood
that's all because they were trying to
warn children about wolves yeah do you
know the story about world war one and
the Wolves the the Germans and the
Russians had a ceasefire in World War
one because so many of them were getting
killed by wolves
they decided to stop killing each other
and kill the wolves because they were
losing so many guys and then you know if
guys got shot on the battlefield the
Wolves would find out the Wolves would
tear the guys alive yeah it's it's a
crazy story if you go to the meat-eater
calm this was a story that I had told
before and you know Steve Rinella on my
friend who runs a media those guys were
like a little skeptical of it so they
historically researched it and turns out
to actually be accurate and there's a
lot of stories from the New York Times
and James pointing what
there has been an update on the story as
of April of this year that there's this
I'm fighting an article about it but
they're talking about that and it links
back to an article from the New York
Times in 1917 and then this team
researched a little bit further
before you got too far it turns out they
debunked it in some way and someone
trying to figure out exactly how it says
there's no mentions of any wolf truce
and some Russian stuff the Christmas
truce of 1914 I guess is what it was
called or something close I think that's
a different truce yeah they just said
there's no I guess there's no they
couldn't find anything in the Russian
sources I guess it's approved they could
be finding in the Russian sources but
didn't they find things and their German
sources I mean there was absolutely
recorded instances of people getting
killed by wolves and I think they
definitely did have some sort of a
ceasefire to kill the wolves like the
guys at meat-eater calm they went over
this really thoroughly with many salt
and sources this is the information
found its way into newspapers at the
time but no one dared to check the New
York Times sources in New York Times
might have bullshit
this says meanwhile Russian hunting
scientist Sergei Matt Vega Chuck said
there were no Russian sources for this
information the earliest information
appeared February 15 1917 in the
Bridgeport evening farmer newspaper hmm
an American newspaper I guess go to the
meat-eater calm story on it I think it's
the meat-eater calm how the fuck do they
not have meat-eater calm I don't
understand that buy that please
but um anyway it is difficult kill
people it's difficult though to get to
the truth I mean it's hard there's so
much BS who knows what's true what's not
sometimes but the story I know that
historically there are a lot of reports
of wolves and Russia killing people for
some reason and you know and maybe
Scandinavia in the older time know about
more Harris you know about the wolves of
Paris no very famous story apparently at
one point in time and now they're
starting to see wolves around Paris
again but at one point in time wolves
had actually invaded Paris and there's
an historical account of the townspeople
getting together and spearing these
wolves Wow
yeah Google the wolves of Paris there
article and media was updated in August
of this year and their takeaway at the
end of that because they said that was
actually mentioned in multiple
newspapers but it might have been a
barroom tale but there are
courts of people dying from wolves
hundreds of people killed wolves in the
war there was a ceasefire of some kind
but the actual and he was all being
together at that exactly one may not be
accurate but I think what had happened
was what what they were saying was
because of war itself all the gunfire
these wolves had moved away from certain
areas and then they had found wounded
soldiers and they started eating the
wounded soldiers so then they started to
associate gunfire with wounded soldiers
so they started actually going towards
where the gunfire was which is what you
hear with grizzly bears
yeah people talk about that with bears i
I never experienced that I'm a little
bit skeptical to be honest about animals
associating gunfire with food and going
toward gunfire that to me it's an issue
armed places where the grizzly bears
aren't hunted people claim that yeah
look well they have rules in certain
places where if a grizzly bear finds
your elk well you have to leave it alone
right like you're not even allowed to
scare it off you have to get out of
there like it's not yours anymore yeah
which is fucking bummer
yeah and I have that issue you know
bears find kills when you're when you're
working alone you got to leave me you
got to make multiple yes corners where
the moose I have to make 10 trips of
course now when you found these wolves
and you like how when you start shooting
and you hit one did the other ones freak
out they realize what's going on the the
some of they started putting on the
brakes but like I said the first wolf I
hit was over 250 yards in he was 264
yards something like that from me
and some of the tracks came about 40 40
to 50 yards from me before they had
stopped they were doing u-turns you
could see in front they were all just
milling around when I was reloading I
just remember seeing all these wolves
milling around in front of me like
running around in circles and I was like
holy cow and I'm reloading and I
remember shooting one more time as they
were headed away but they all took off
they headed into the woods and one of
the walls that I had hit was parallel
paraplegic but he was still going on two
legs
so I ran behind him yeah I ran in the
cat the other
the other two had just dropped
immediately one of them is hit right
ahead but I ran in the cabin grab my 22
because I didn't want to put a big 36
hole in this this wolf that was
paraplegic and I chased him down caught
up with him and shot him with 22 then I
could hear all the other wolves howling
and howling they're like you know
probably almost half a mile away from me
by then they were up in the woods the
other side of the lake and I just ran
Turin over to that what they had killed
and this is the first time I saw it it
was a year-and-a-half old ball moose and
it was still all there the legs were
still on and I got pictures of it stuff
they had just started eating it not long
before I started for the pictures on
your Facebook page not of that moose
they put those on lbz I think what's lbz
life below zero oh when they showed that
story that was way but you know that's
like six years ago I was one of my first
stories that's a different move I got
charged by one so so when you find the
wolves that you did shoot and you know
you shot and killed three of them yeah
do you eat them you know I ate some of
the hosts just because I was launched
food I don't like to eat wolf me if I
can help it it's to me there's like
cleaner meat and there's dirtier meat
III don't really like to eat bears a lot
of people eat bears I've eaten the one
grizzly bear that I ever shot I didn't
shoot him because I wanted to eat him I
shot him because I needed to shoot him
but if I have caribou and moose I don't
really want anything else really
ungulates is what I like to eat right of
course they're cleaner if you see the
stuff that bears eat I don't know why
people are so crazy about bear me some
people really like bear me but I've seen
what bears eat and I don't really want
to be in bears rotten food oh yeah I
mean you know they just got a lot more
parasites that can actually harm you
yeah like a caribou is a clean animal
there's a couple things they can have
that can hurt you not too bad normally
but a grizzly bear I mean you skin and
them and there's worms this long
crawling out their ass and they got a
lot and those worms can hurt you there
yeah you know they're they're bad if
they get into a person they can cause
serious problems because they don't stay
in your intestines they go into your
brain
in different weird places it's the eggs
get into you and they hatch cuz they're
an unfamiliar host I don't know where to
go oh Jesus you go into spinal cord to
go all over the place what do they do if
that happens to you a lot of kids have
have had big problems get the same kind
of very similar kind of worm lives in
raccoons
so kids play on a playground they you
know raccoon feces has the eggs in it oh
wow it's baylisascaris is the the genus
of worm it's like a round worm normally
it doesn't cause a bear too much problem
he just lives in their intestines but if
that larva if if you get an egg in you
and now the larvae doesn't know where to
go he's an unfamiliar host and they act
differently they'll migrate into weird
places in your body like nervous tissue
they get in your eyes and stuff oh Jesus
Christ
yeah yeah oh look at that so there's got
one of their eyes oh Jesus the parasite
on the playground roundworm Wow look at
that man in the eyeball yeah and what
did they do well I I've never got one in
my I saw like it fuck that look at that
thing traveling around inside this
person's eyeballs yuck
that man there's a lot of parasites out
there that's the thing people don't
realize is like humans used to have a
lot of parasites in them how many people
have them in their eyes those are all
those pictures of eyeballs yeah I killed
this one bear one time and those worms
there's one on the Left Jamie right the
left your cursor right there click on
that that's 15 worms now click on that
oh my god their eyeballs overcome with
fucking worms yeah I've had to deal with
those worms but not in me a 15
centimeter that's what it says oh that's
so long yeah they're long they're long
they're about as big around as your your
pinky oh or at least my food this is 14
worms in this little woman Zion oh my
god oh my god that's so insane oh fuck
parasites man so there's so many
parasites it's creepy like I seen a lot
of parasites but most unwanted where
those are one that will and the one
that's in the grizzly bear is just a
slightly different variation from that
one that's in raccoons
baylisascaris transfigure lives in the
grizzlies up there and wearing rubber
gloves when you cut it down and
everything hell no no no but I I did
build a big bonfire right there Sue's
right in my yard and I just burned the
ground because I got little kids up
there and they were you know crawling
around that time playing and stuff and I
just built this huge bonfire sound and
make sure no eggs the eggs are very
resilient they can last for years and
years in the environment they can
survive being frozen all winter really
oh yeah they're microscopic eggs that's
what you got to worry about not the big
worm you got to worry about the eggs
fuck a lot of bear hunters don't know
this when you're handling a bear skin
those eggs are on the fur yeah if you're
playing around the bear skin before it
gets tan and then you you know you go
like this or something all the sudden
you get those eggs in you scary shit
fuck that oh oh that's that's one of my
number one fears something creepy crawl
is growing inside me getting my eyeballs
into my brain tissue I have a buddy of
mine my friend Justin Ren he does a
charity called fight for the Forgotten
and he builds wells for the pygmies and
we help sponsor him and we do some
things with him and he goes back and
forth to the Congo like a couple times a
year and he went there recently and like
six months ago
and has caught a parasite that they
can't identify and they think it might
be in his brain they don't know where it
is but like he'll work out really hard
and then they'll be shivering with like
pale skin and you know they're trying to
do all these different things to him to
try to eradicate the parasite they don't
only know exactly what he has because
he's so deep into the jungle he's so
deep in the Congo he's going with a lot
of Western people don't go so there
they're really baffled don't like we're
not we don't know what the fuck you have
and he's had it for months at months and
months and months of suffering and just
it's taken a toll on him across the
board every every aspect of his health
has deteriorated because of this it's
really creepy I've heard of people dying
from parasites they picked up in the
tropics yeah
so when you eat the wolf what do you eat
the backstraps you do you cook the hams
like how do you how do you eat a wolf
the only way that I like to eat a wolf
is a boil it for a good long time
because wolves too will have parasites
they'll have trichinosis they're meat
eaters Anthony eats meat you wanna make
sure it's thoroughly cooked I like to
boil it boiled wolf yeah she's in a lot
of wolf I've eaten wolf you know three
or four times when I didn't have much
else and I figured hey I better take
advantage of this food I got here rather
than give it to something else too easy
feed it to your family they've probably
wolf like my kids when they're little
maybe once or something like that
cellairis how many people could you ask
that to and they go yeah my kids
probably eaten wolf I don't know like I
met these Mongolians once and they were
like oh you shoot some walls we want
wolf meat we love wolf meat you know
Mongolians they're all into it yeah a
lot of Native Americans were into wolf
meat I don't like it's a trappers we're
into wolf meat well that's what they had
to eat but uh yeah but some of them were
actually preferred it really yeah there
was something from the Lewis Clark
exhibition oh yes another thing that
expedition it was something from Rinella
was telling me about some guys actually
preferred wolf meat I was like their
favorite favorite well domestic dog
Lewis and Clark expedition they would
buy dogs from the Indians and eat him
because they didn't want to eat salmon
they had they had fish is what I heard
they could have eaten but they'd rather
eat dog because they want to read me oh
Jesus yeah Wow when they got way out
like the Columbia River area so did you
eat these wolves they shot I ate a
little bit of it because I was short on
food that at that time that winter you
know not like the whole thing but a few
meals of it so you boil it and how do
you do it like onions and potatoes make
a soup I didn't have anything like that
no I mean no I'm out there all winter
long that was 2012 2013 there was I
didn't have any vegetables do you know
where I get the vegetables out of the
caribou stomach what the caribou eats
for plant food that's what I get for
plant food in the winter that's the only
so you would actually eat their stomach
contents
yeah really sure people's done it for
thousands of years I believe you I
believe they have not only that but a
pickle meat and I take tenderloins off
of caribou
right pickled in their stomach contents
pickled stomach contents explain that to
me how do you do that well you you got
to learn about caribou stomach because
you don't want to go too far downstream
it starts turning brownish but like the
first the the big chamber the rumen when
they eat these lichens in the winter
that's what they're feeding on mm-hmm
you can't eat those lichens off the
ground
there's harsh but when it's partially
digested in a caribou stomach it
actually is an edible food and the old
people used to eat these a lot I read
about it and I even talked to some
people who had done it you know and they
were kids and stuff and sure enough it's
not bad stuff I got hooked on it man one
winter I was eating a lot of caribou
stomach contents and yeah my family
wasn't into that they they were like
looking at me like good I don't eat that
anymore basically I went as primitive as
I could go and I satisfied my curiosity
about living that extreme of a
subsistence lifestyle so now I eat much
more store-bought vegetables I eat you
know normal foods but for a time there
for a few years I got down to where I
was eating caribou stomach contents I
was doing anything I just wanted to just
immerse myself in that whole environment
out there I wanted to get my food right
there what I could see what I could get
myself just get right into it you know
15 months without even going out to town
not talking to other people I mean at
that time I had my wife there but just
to really get into a different state of
consciousness it puts you in a different
state of consciousness and it's a
beautiful thing and when you said
pickled
stomach contents yeah how do you how are
you pickling a tenderloin in the stomach
contents you just take the caribou you
get to the right chamber of the stomach
they got four chambers on their stomach
you know you just cut a little slit in
it just after you've pulled the guts out
and you just slip the meat in there you
slip it right into the room and
contents there and what happens is
assuming the temperatures about right it
it will retain a lot of heat it creates
heat I think the the micro organisms in
there create heat because if you just
bury that in snow and snow of course
insulates it it'll stay warm for quite a
while and if it was really cold it might
not work out it might freeze solid
before it pickled but if it's the right
temperature the meat will turn brownish
color over time and it'll be pickled
that old people used to do this all the
time I read about this you know 20 years
ago and then I talked to people and I
said yeah this is safe to do so I tried
it and and there was a winner there
where that's where I got a lot of my
vegetables with out of caribou stomach
and the meat will just it'll it'll turn
brownish first on the outer part of the
mean and all the way through it and it
gets pickled I've done a lot of
different things with me you know what I
like to do with me
a lot of people don't realize because
you live in the modern world and just
like me when I grew up right meats
dangerous if it's wrong you gotta be
careful yellow like wash everything be
careful actually what I found is that it
just all depends on the conditions once
you learn how to handle meat properly
you can do a lot of things with meat
that most people would be scared to
death of and it's completely safe as far
as I'm concerned I never had any
problems with it but like moisture is
very important if you buy meat in the
storage wrapped in plastic that keeps it
moist you let it sit around for a while
it spoils and it doesn't take long leave
me out of your refrigerated least
spoiled in a day right but if you take a
muscle out of an animal and you butcher
it properly you separate the muscle as
one piece you don't make a bunch of cuts
in the fashio you can take a muscle it's
2 or 3 inches thick don't put it in
plastic don't wrap it up that'll cause
it to spoil you leave it right out in
the air 2 or 3 inch thick muscle I set
them on a rack up high above my wood
stove it's like a hundred degrees up
there sometimes other times it's cold up
there just varies during the day
depending on how the fire is stoked
right I'll let it sit there for a week
ten days and then I'll eat it never cook
it just let it sit there
really yeah never cook it no just let it
sit there so he gets a crust on the
outside
it gets a crust on the outside but it's
too thick of a piece to dry like you
would dry jerk your subscribe it stays
moist inside it's like making cheese on
it turns into something like cheese it
gets different flavors so you're aging
it yeah you're aging it's actually
fermentation that's taking place
I believe it's actually a fermentation
process but it takes on different
flavors I really like I call it gummy me
cuz that's what my kids used to call it
and gummy me gummy me cuz it gets kind
of gummy no it's good it's good yeah it
really is I wish I had something I was
saying when I left Alaska I wish I had
some something like that to bring Joe
down but I didn't have anything so when
you're was going I was looking for
something about the caribou stomach and
there's this thing called the polar
manual made by the government yeah I
think the Navy oh this is Kara back fat
is better than chewing gum and they
missed mid 1961 so it might maybe even
older look at this old timers from the
North mention many interesting Eskimo
Indian and Siberian foods
pemmican I've heard of that it's the
meat of bear seal caribou and walrus
mixed together with fish eggs and dried
to a hard frozen block trappers peaches
and cream is chewing dried beaver tail
caribou back fat is better than chewing
gum don't overlook the contents of a
seal stomach for a fresh fried fish
dinner nor the contents of a caribou
stomach mixed with the trip lining as a
tasty in quotes salad of reindeer moss
and lichens properly how's that word
acidulated situated i like the next one
there walrus milk that death gives 16
quarts of milk I love dairy products I
can't get my 10 quarts of milk from a
walrus I one time I was thinking about
milking a caribou after I killed her but
I I didn't just because she was in bad
shape she had been attacked by the
wolves and she had an infection in her
leg and I was afraid that somehow I
might get sick but
I just remember this lactating caribou
that I had killed and I was thinking I
never heard of people doing that but you
know milking an animal after died until
you just read that but walrus oh you
were worried you would have taken the
milk but except for the fact that she
had been infected she was the one that
only had two good legs and her back leg
going right up there towards her udder
oh it was in terrible shape it was all
it was full of pus and damn I
encountered that with an elk shot once
he had been stabbed by another elk like
in his in his one of his back legs and
it was just all filled with pus like
when we were quartering him and taking
it apart
there was this one section that was just
all possums and a ste I've seen the same
thing in a moose stabbed in the back
like in the haunch there hmm yeah by one
of the tines so when you boil the the
wolf
how are you eating that uh just plain
just plain just chop you can fry it
after you boil it give it a little extra
flavor to do or if I yeah was that what
you were doing or were you just eating
it boiled both what is it like is there
something you could taste a little
Wolfie luffy wolf meat it's right it's a
desperation food right you said how you
would look at it if I didn't have
something else Eddie wolf but yeah you
know I got other things um there's all
kind of stuff you can do with food you
can you know you guess primitive as you
want yeah I can imagine but there's so
much else going on like for me now if if
you want to live that primitive lay off
the land that's all you do it takes all
your time mm-hmm
if you want to share that life with
other people like what I've been trying
to do the last six years you can't just
do that yeah because not that I don't
really have the amount of time to hunt
and gather like you would I wouldn't
even have the ability to communicate
right I won't even be able to arrange to
be on your show if I was out there
living the way I was living
No six seven eight years ago right so I
wanna like how long did it take before
you got it down where you knew what to
do like you said when you went out there
the first time you really had never even
hunted before correct so how long did it
take before you had like a system down
what are you like okay I got this I know
what I'm doing well I did my homework I
did a lot of reading before I went out
there which so you know I I picked it up
pretty fast like that first moose I
killed the biggest thing I had ever
killed before that was a snowshoe hare
but I did all right I mean I salvaged
that whole moose and it was six hundred
yards from the lake I got it all down to
the lake I got it back to the camp I
just believe in approaching problems in
a measured way don't rush into it it
could be dangerous you know kids I've
gone out there they want to live off the
land they've starved to death
people have died but if you do your
homework if you want to do something
like that not just going living in the
wilderness if you want to do anything
dangerous do it carefully so I studied
so much before I actually started
putting into practice that it came
pretty fast
you know within a couple years I felt
like I pretty much had things together
out there a couple years a long time
though so for a couple years you just
kind of piecing it together
well I was on a steeper learning curve
the first couple of years I'm still
learning I mean we're all learning all
the time
but yeah like that that winter that I
learned that you can't count on the
caribou you know if you got two people
out there you better get two moose in
the fall because the caravel might not
show up mmm so would you like when you
shot a moose and you knew you had enough
meat you would stop right there you'd
say okay I'm good
yeah I mean in the fall normally
normally you know like 14 Falls I've
spent out there I've always gotten a
moose in September always and normally
if I'm if I'm alone that's all I need is
one moves that'll last six months even
if I didn't get caribou
you're from with a woman or I got two
little kids out there like I did some
years that's not gonna be enough to go
through the whole winter so you would
get another moose some years I did get
two moose what are the regulations the
regulations there's different regulation
sources assistance hunting right not
really not in that particular area there
really isn't much difference at all in
subsistence regulations there are a lot
of myths about that the only difference
where I was in terms of subsistence
regulations was federal regulations as
they applied to migratory waterfowl so I
can legally when I'm living there hunt
ducks in the springtime but all the
other seasons are exactly the same but
the truth of it is Joe when I first went
out there I couldn't even have a high
license that high license expires in
December how the hell am I gonna get a
new one
right I mean January February March
April sometimes I'd go to town in the
summer and get a new hunting license you
know and the I didn't even have a
calendar I didn't have a watch there's
times I didn't know you know I figured
okay it sits around the equinox it's
late September that's the moose hunting
time but what mattered to me was that
the flies were no longer laying eggs
then I could hunt moose it was legal
because the legal season actually
started even earlier than that but I
didn't care about the legal season what
I cared about was when I can preserve
the meat and you know the caribou season
is pretty much all winter long and
pretty much all year long I think they
got a month or two in the summer now you
can't hunt him but the season didn't
affect me too much I mean one one
difference in my life now is that I play
by the rules I didn't use to play by the
rules it was the illegal for me to even
live there when I got up to Alaska I
discovered that hey you can't just go
live out in the bush legally you know I
went and talked to the state I said this
is what I want to do they said that's
actually illegal well it's actually
illegal but things were loosely enforced
twenty years ago - I got away with it
for 17 years before I had a permit to
live there
so when you had to get a permit would do
you have to tell them hey I've been
living there for 17 years
oh no they flew out they flew out and
told me hey you've been living here 17
years you got to start paying for a
perfect really actually you can't get a
permit to live there to visit oh yeah
yeah I'd been waiting for 17 years I
built the camp you know the original
tent camp in 2000 so I occupied that
spot since 2000 it was a known thing I
had told people at the agencies that are
managing that land that I was going to
go out there and everything but yeah 20
years ago it was just a little looser I
think and also I wasn't hurting anybody
who cared there was nobody else out
there right it wasn't like there were
other people that wanted to do something
with that spot or anything so you know
some years there would be a state
trooper that would land there in a
little ski plane and check on me
you know ask me hey Glenn you need Athen
you know I can bring you some toilet
paper next time I come by or something
it was never a problem but as time went
on of course and once I got in a TV show
I mean I thought when I got in the show
I was like okay I'm gonna you know blow
your cover blow my cover for sure
I remember saying hey could we do this
show without telling people where I am
no no no we can't do that people
discovered where I was the first week I
was on TV I had people writing to be say
hey is this your camp and they had a
satellite photo of it they're like we
tracked you down oh Jesus Christ
it was feel so weird I tell you I kind
of was like I was like wow
congratulations you found I thought it
was amazing like the skill that because
we didn't say exactly where it was on TV
these guys figured it out like looking
at at the footage on TV the mountains
and just knowing that it was somewhere
in the Chandalar area which is a huge
area and then they started looking at
satellite photos and they tracked me
down I was like complementing one good
job well if not you mean he's 60 miles
off the haul road all they do is make it
grid well 60 miles as you walk not as
the raven flies okay we don't have any
crows up there but basically yeah it
changed things and you know there was
one day just a couple of years ago when
I was out there with
Tricia my partner now and heard a plane
coming in the distance and you just
don't hear planes coming in low like
gonna land very often like maybe three
four times in 20 years I've ever had a
plane come out there and land when I was
out there and well except the state
troopers landed maybe half a dozen times
but I hear this plane coming and I was
like Tucker they're laying here and I
said to Tricia I said this could be the
day I've been waiting for for 17 years
is probably the state coming to talk to
me about the situation here and it was
for 17 years well I mean yeah I did been
a long time so uh I mean I I just
believe in being honest about stuff you
know it's like there's no point I mean I
told everybody what I was doing right
but just because it happened to be
technically illegal I wasn't going to
give up my dream of living in the Alaska
wilderness you know so what what's the
first thing they say to you when they
land hey Glenn saw you on TV how's it
going the pilot who brought him felt
real bad you know because he knew me oh
and they had hired him but no I didn't
mind I mean what the hell I was living
on state land I didn't have a permit I
needed a permit right so how does that
work how much does it cost I paid $1,000
a year after that I had to pay some back
fees but honestly the only you can't get
a permit to live on public land you can
get a permit to do certain things there
I was given a permit at that time for a
commercial trapping permit or trapping
cabin permit they call it in it for the
purpose of making television I paid
$1,000 a year for that I paid on my back
dude I paid everything off yeah you're
clear we're clear but what about hunting
license lots I talk about it even if I
just I'm open I don't I got no secrets
but there's no risk of them taking away
your hunting license because you've
hunted without one for a long time I
don't know what the statute of
limitations is on that one but
that's I that's I play by the book now
right ever since you know six years ago
I pretty much I got on TV and by that
time there was no problem getting a
hunting license because I get a lot of
planes going back and forth and I mean I
was buying my hunting license they were
in the early years there were times when
I literally had no way to get a high
license right when it would expire in
December when I get to town the next
time I bought a hunting license I mean I
always paid every year right but yeah I
mean I tried to do it by the book now
did you ever eat near Raven no I heard
Raven taste good oh I heard crow had
crow taste good I heard it's very
similar to like diver duck look if you
pretty prope prepare correctly you know
diver ducks state yeah like I'm
merganser some more of a fishy taste to
them oh you mean like yeah like some of
them yeah like a scoter mm-hmm yeah but
apparently Raven the crow you need it
it's good oh you can eat anything that's
whether or not you want to what's the
weirdest shit you mean weasels weasels
no question that was the weirdest yeah
it was that hint to mouth period when
ran out of moose meat
caribou didn't show up I was starving I
was literally starving and I was getting
a little bit to eat every day but I was
running all over the mountains hunting
burning up lots of calories and I can
eat three or four pounds of meat a day
some days all I was eating was a grouse
or something and there were a couple
days when the only thing I brought home
were a couple weasels you know I was
trapping Martin I had Martin traps out
and sometimes weasels go into him and
I've eaten weasel and I'll tell you
somethin bout weasel they smell like a
skunk they got a scent gland
they're terrible you if you ever want to
wheeze weasels for food you've got to
skin it real carefully you don't want to
hit the same gland and then the other
thing about a weasel is if you just fry
them up real hot they're so small you
can eat just about every bone in them
like the legs just crunch crunch crunch
really oh yeah yeah and the weasels are
speak probably carnivorous right so you
probably have to cook right through them
to live on voles oh yeah oh I fried them
right up until they were like blonde
little mice
yeah well voles are
like rodents that live in the Brooks
Range we don't have real mice Oh so
voles like a cousin of a mouse or
something they're related so you're you
just fry it till it's just everything's
dead yeah hopefully that was that was
not good that was the weirdest stuff I
ever ate I hope never so uh it's not not
good depends on how good a job you do
skin on they smell like a skunk I mean
you know flavors mostly smell this is
family eating this weasel too at the
time
Sylvia at the time was out there with me
yes she did weasel yeah she was looking
a phrase while she's eating weasel she
had a good attitude about it
she was pretty amazing woman in terms of
taken to the bush she I mean she was an
opera singer in Berlin before she met me
she wasn't really and and my partner
Trisha that I've been living with the
last five years she was an attorney in
Boston why it's yeah Wow well I get that
people are always telling me like you're
never gonna find a woman to live like
that out there but actually it's
appealing to certain people and I think
a lot of people that's why people watch
on TV people want to be free right yeah
and people want to be alive yeah and a
lot of people don't feel it today it's
true if you spend your whole life in an
office or a courtroom and before that
you were in school you've never really
yeah just feel trapped
yeah in the grind the grind of just
keeps showing up at the office every day
and cases are piling up and like she
know she's living with Glenn by side of
a lake dodging wolves I get it man the
the appeal of it is why those shows are
so successful yeah I mean that shows
really six I had sue Aikens on the
podcast before she's a really
fascinating human - really really
enjoyed talking to her like what a tough
broad I'm not on the show anymore you
know yeah I know yeah yeah um what
happened with you in the showed you guys
have fallen good question yeah we had a
falling-out what was the falling-out
about they never told me exactly
they just got ready
they renewed my contract we went out and
filmed one episode and I never heard
from him again
really yeah I mean not about working on
the show anymore do you think they just
decided you weren't a storyline that was
as successful or is I think I'm very
popular with the fans every everybody
that I talk to I mean yeah the viewers
know you were my favorite guy I love it
because people tell me that I really
made a difference in their life like
they learned something that got inspired
they actually made changes in their life
and I hear this all time like yesterday
traveling you know had four different
people come talk to me about it and but
I think I went about as far as I could
go in this show because I was always
pushing to tell stories or to share
things that didn't fit into the concept
they had when you make a TV show you got
a concept before you find the people to
put in it right mm-hmm
and I mean life below zero is a show
about supposedly people living a
subsistence lifestyle in the bush and
that's part of my life but there's a lot
more to it and I'm always on a person
who's always trying to learn and grow
and do new things and expand so when
they met me I fit into their show like a
hand in a glove but I wanted to do more
and I wanted to share more so I get
bored you know I made I think I'm an
eighty five episodes of life below zero
I made a lot of TV I wasn't satisfied
just to show people what it's like to
search for your food and chop down a
tree you know for your firewood I wanted
to do more so I was always pushing to do
stories that were a little bit out of
the range or the scope of what they
envisioned for me to do in the show mmm
I wanted to fly on a little eight pound
paraglider off the top of the mountain
to get back to my camp I've been
dreaming about it for years and you know
I said hey I'm gonna do this I'm gonna
paraglide off this mountain I got a lot
of resistance from the producers about
stories
something like that I did it I did it
and I was like I want to film this and
that you know hey if you guys don't want
to film it they didn't want to film it
I'll get somebody else for them I am
gonna film this and I'm gonna do this
because I was excited about it they put
it in the show but I got a lot of you
know resistance and I wanted to teach
people all the time about things and
that wasn't really the maybe the best
vehicle for it I mean I had a blast
doing the show I had an awesome time I
learned a ton of stuff about making TV
about all kinds of things and I made
awesome friends the cameraman I worked
with some of the best people I've ever
met in my life and overall had a great
experience but I was always pushing the
limits of what they really wanted to do
I think because I wanted to make a story
for example about finding a site where
Stone Age people had lived that was very
unpopular with the producers but we did
it I mean I I was just add why would
that be unpopular
that's so he said you look like you're
just walking around you look like you're
just out there exploring walking around
we want to see finding something to eat
go chop something cut some more trees
first I was like no I've cut enough
trees on camera I want to do something
worthwhile you know I wanted to teach
people things watch there's all kinds of
stuff out there nature I just wanted to
climb the highest mountain anywhere
around I'd never been up there I've been
looking at it for years and years those
were the kind of stories that I had to
really twist people's arms to get on the
show the fans loved him but the
producers for some reason didn't now
this don't age site did you find it yeah
yeah well it was amazing it was like if
maybe that - not that we can get to
right now it was like we made a whole
story on TV about it is amazing I found
something found the stumps I heard about
it from somebody that had been there in
the 1970s he said there's a place where
you can find stumps that were cut with
stone axe I was like that's totally
amazing now you got to understand the
stone Age's in Alaska was we're talking
like what maybe eight years ago maybe a
hundred 100 150 not that long ago
really and everything's frozen eight
months of the year so stumps lasts a
long time you know these stumps were old
like you could you they were still
standing and you could touch him and you
could knock him over they were like
right on the edge like they might not be
there in ten years it was amazing
but yeah this this this gentleman I know
who grew up as a little kid out there
with his dad his dad was a hunting guide
and they had been all over in this area
and he told me that there was this place
where people had camped and they had
found rings of stones where they had had
their skin tense and they found these
stumps that were cut with stone axes and
so we actually made a shows awesome I
went with two cameramen we walked for a
couple days just to get there from my
camp Wow and then just going by this
verbal description that he had given me
I was able to locate he told me about a
game trail that and it was still there
like the the animals are still following
the same route you know and he said you
get there you you turn this way you're
going up in the mountains gonna be there
and off to the side you're gonna see
these stumps and sure enough I found the
stumps on camera it was amazing Wow I
got one of them in Fairbanks I brought
down with me that's so wild that it was
just off of someone's description yeah
from the 1970 yeah Jack rieckhoff he's
an amazing man he um he still lives in
the Brooks Range in a small village
called Weisman and he was somebody that
I learned a lot from after I got to
Alaska wiesen was on that show as well
wasn't it didn't they do film some stuff
from that that part of Eric soliton
that's right actually the only person on
the show that I knew prior to the show
you knew him Eric and I had known each
other for 10 years I met him not long
after he came to Alaska he's another
really interesting guy he is yeah
unfortunately uh Eric and I were friends
and I kind of replaced him on the show
that's what happened but but you guys
were together at the same time for a
little while it was a little overlap
yeah
first it was Eric was on for a year
before me then they found me then we
overlapped for a while and they go where
they are so they would just get rid of
you if they decided they were bored with
your storyline there's other people
living up there like that they define
them and office politics I think wasn't
and also just differences in creative
vision I mean I was not satisfied to
just do the standard I'm starving I'm
looking for a firewood or whatever
stories over and over I was always
trying to push it I was doing
paragliding I was doing you know just
exploring showing people where Stone Age
people lived climbing
Mountains just for the joy of climbing
them and sit up on top and philosophize
about life those are kind of stories I
like to do and that really wasn't the
vision they had I think that was a lot
of it but honestly they never they
didn't talk to me about it after they
stopped working I still haven't talked
to him about it
so they just stopped yeah they didn't
call you up and say they renewed my
contract right they had an option to
renew for one more year we shot one
episode radio silence after five months
I sent him an email and said hey what's
up you guys plan on filming something or
what's going on and I got about two
lines back from and said story the
schedules all fall we don't have any
plans to film with you Wow yeah that
must be weird okay
seems like that's a lot of episodes to
just sort of brush you off like that
were you difficult to work with the show
producer told me a couple years ago he's
fired me if he could but he couldn't
really the the showrunner why didn't why
did he say that I first of all I didn't
work with producers in the field after
the first year and a half I said hey I
can produce myself in the field I'm I
don't need to work with producers
anymore and they went along with that so
I'm responsible for my own stories as
far as I'm concerned I'm the author of
my own stories it's me and a couple
cameraman and we're out there and I'm
making what I consider real TV I'm
sharing what I want to share
nobody's feeding me lines nobody's
telling me what I got to do I'm
producing myself I'm working with
awesome cameramen and we were doing
incredible things I made whole episodes
of LBZ in the field was just one
cameraman and then we send all the
footage back to LA and they work all
their magic and edit it and everything
and do what they want with it but yeah
I've made several episodes with just me
and one cameraman out there but that's a
lot of a freedom that's not normally
given to people on reality TV from what
I'm told
and of course that caused some tensions
so they wanted to control you more oh
yeah yeah so why do you say that he
would fire you if he could guess he
didn't like the kind of stories that I
was so it was there really because I I
don't remember the details of that
conversation
but there was just a general tension a
lot I got a lot of negative feedback
about what I was giving them and it was
weird because people were loving it I
mean the people that you would contact
with on social media man yeah like I I
wasn't I didn't even have the internet
when I started this show you know I
didn't I didn't have a cellphone when I
started this show I just got all modern
in the last years but yeah I got on
Facebook and I got thousands of people
you know giving me positive feedback and
when I travel anywhere or even go to
Fairbanks I was getting all this
positive feedback so it seemed to me
like the viewers really liked what I was
doing but I did get a lot of negative
feedback from certain particular people
making the show that that wasn't what
they really wanted they have a formula
right in the formulas survival really
the formula like subsistence survival
finding enough food to eat chopping wood
it's really appealing it's one of the
more interesting things about those kind
of shows it's like what is it that's
tapping in or what is it tapping into
what what part of your ancient memory
where this is like really exciting to
people because I think there's a lot of
folks out there like your lawyer friend
or your opera friend that they just
there's something about the idea of
getting away from everything and just
living away more simple life it's it's
it seems like the antidote for them so
when you watch this on television and
you see these people just chopping wood
and living by the land and dealing with
the dangers of living in the bush it's
like there's something about it's like
make you tune in every week yeah and I
mean it is it's it's beautiful stuff to
share I think it's it's awesome just for
me I don't think it's the perfect
vehicle to share exactly what I want to
share because I want to go a little
deeper mm-hmm I want more than you know
like a four second sound bite and that's
what I like about this show Joe when I
discovered your show is like wow they're
people they just sit down have a normal
conversation rather than everything
being chopped up and edited little sound
bites
yeah and you get a chance to really talk
about stuff you know if you're sitting
around just having a conversation with
someone for three hours you get to
really expand on your ideas and have you
said something that you think maybe
didn't say it right you get to say it
better or well what I was saying was
this and you get to explain yourself
expand and really get a thought across
there's not a lot of places where you
can do that in this world no no no and
those reality TV shows mean you your
your situation sounded like it was
pretty much you producing it which would
give you as much reality as you know
they left in with editing but a lot of
reality shows you know as well as I do
they just set things up like hey you're
gonna pretend like you lost your keys in
that lake right you know I fuck my keys
where's my key you see bad acting like
oh my god and I know I know how worse
I've done those shows before I know that
there's someone who's always trying to
set up these scenarios they're scripted
it's like sort of non scripted scripted
like they have a place to go to to have
it and you see them on these shows you
can tell when people are acting that's
like a weird feeling that you get yeah
when you know this guy's opened up the
storage shed before and he's opening up
now Wow what do we got here like come on
man you're a terrible actor this is
awful
but there's something about these
formulas that these people have created
reality television is a very strange
animal yeah because it's not reality you
know a lot of times at least and one of
the things I think that's really
exciting about those shows like life
below zero and your situation in
particular was that there's only so much
of that you can fake I mean just the the
actual undisputable reality of your
existence is so fascinating you have
this tiny little fucking house that you
built yourself on a lake and then wolves
are trying to kill you like that shit is
real you know to me I mean and you're
out there walking in the snow oh yeah it
was like a rifle and some snowshoes and
a backpack that's as real as is humanly
possible and anything that they bullshit
with there it's like so what because the
the the scene itself is so crazy like
just you know your life I always feel
like that yeah there's no need to
bullshit yeah why do people think they
need to bullshit and it's not just
reality TV but in general I mean come on
it's in politics and everything yeah
just being straightforward and honest
can get you a long ways but a lot of
people think for some reason that it's
better to bullshit you why do you think
that is because in the short term it can
work for some people it even seems to
work for quite a while I mean come on
talking about the president yeah you can
go along yeah but I don't know I mean to
me how do you feel inside about yourself
if you're making some false story up
about yourself yeah right yeah there's
something about it too that when someone
gets caught like that Jesse small a guy
when he got am I saying it wrong like
Dave did no it's that juicy smooth a is
it just Jesse small lot yes boy do you
know he is no good for you I should not
even tell you you don't need to know
this nonsense no I'm trying to get
up-to-date it's a guy who was an actor
on the show Empire he was actually in
one of the alien movies too he was in
which one was he in he was in the one
with it was a good one he was in a good
one he was one of the people on the ship
anyway who's in one of the more recent
alien movies well the Mighty Ducks too
well there you go
he's been a bunch of shit anyway he's an
actor and he made up a story allegedly
seems like you made it up of getting
beat up by these white supremacist with
Trump hats on Magga hats on they put a
noose around his neck and he walked into
the hotel with the new still around his
neck and told the whole story well he
didn't by taking the noose off of his
neck which is like everybody's like what
we--what like everybody that heard the
story it's such a badly concocted story
everybody that heard the story was like
what the fuck and then the two guys that
he got to rough him up he got these two
guys to rough him up and then they came
out Sandoz bullshit this guy pay
and then the Chicago Police Department
is they're prosecuting him they're
trying to get him to pay for their
investigation there's lawsuits and he
still it's it's it's the most obviously
fake story ever and it's coming out of a
guy who is a really successful actor so
it's so crazy it's this you know race
racial hate this hate crime story that
this guy concocted for attention
apparently you know the thought is that
he wasn't happy with his role on Empire
or what but it was a huge national story
wherever cuz everybody knew kind of
right away that it was fake
everybody's like wait what he's got the
noose around his neck and he's holding a
Subway sandwich he went to a subway so
he still had the sandwich right somebody
smacked him in the head a couple of
times and he had noose around his neck
he's telling this crazy store and he
wants to hold press conferences he said
he was the black Tupac or the gay to POC
he called himself sorry it was just
complete nonsense and there's something
about him talking telling his story
where you know it's bullshit and you're
like what are you doing like what is
this it's such it's so compelling and
you see someone lie like that about some
crazy wacky made-up story it's so
compelling it's like because you know
like I when I was a little kid I would
lie about shit I'd make stuff up you
know every little kid will tell you a
lie and I remember thinking this guy
never stopped like he like lied like
when he was a little kid yeah
and just kept lying that happens to some
people Cass yeah yes that's the
dangerous thing about lying oh yeah if
you lie enough I think some people
actually start believing it oh for sure
yeah yeah yeah there's a psychosis
involved for sure yeah some people when
they lie about their past and they you
know like the one that weirder once is
like when guys get caught with stolen
valor like they have a crazy lie made-up
story about their military history and
war record and that happened with
somebody in reality TV that was working
with
Cody Lundin wasn't there somebody
working with him dual survivor or
something tape oh one of his one of his
guys was was a stolen valor guy me I
shouldn't say I don't know never watch
the show but I if I remember right I
heard that he's a weird one huh that guy
just walking around barefoot was
disgusting feet I like to go barefoot
yeah but his feet it looked like the
monsters feet they would show him like
it'd be like a thing like a Badge of
Courage would show these gigantic
calloused feet like that what he didn't
have any shoes cuz he everywhere he
walked and walked barefoot so his the
bottom of his feet was like the top of
this table mmm like this hard crusty and
fucking look at that look at that guy
shoot his foot oh look at that here's
the thing man
mine don't get like that even when I go
out there in the fucking desert
constantly is that that's not his foot
dude that's a little kids foot really it
says Cody's flip-flops I was like a
flip-flop but he made he made it for
someone yeah okay yeah there's something
about walking around barefoot that seems
really fucking gross I love it in the
summer it's the first thing I want to do
is get my shoes off yeah oh yeah I climb
up the mountains barefoot until I get to
where the rocks are you know anyway oh
yeah I've walked like the 60 miles from
the road to my camp two-thirds of the
way barefoot really yeah got a blister
on my foot after about 20 miles so took
my shoe off and I realized hey the foot
without a shoe feels a lot better than
one with a shoe so I took them both off
went the rest of the way oh yeah I'm big
into walking barefoot but you got like
soft pack ground up there right the
ground sponge if it's damp if it dries
out then those lichens get abrasive then
it's hard to go barefoot they get very
abrasive but if they're damp man they're
soft you can use them for toilet paper
believe me I do use lichens for toilet
baby I've used all the different stuff
for toilet paper but lichens are one of
the best mm-hmm if they're moist if
they're dry they're good for firestarter
that's about it so that Lake where you
live you live right off of fish in that
Lake a lot there been years I fished
there like I said there was one year
when I never went out I stayed for 15
months and I fished a lot that summer
you know Park I like 75 fish on that
summer I remember right
but I don't eat a lot of fish I'm not a
big fish eater and right a weasel those
desperate times
Oh a neat one not the lake right hey
there's my camp oh that's so pretty man
Wow look where you live well lived I
don't live there all the time like it
right um
this the other thing is situations
change with my permits and you can't get
a permit to live there and I can't even
get a permit to make TV there now and
I'm a TV show anymore really yeah I can
transition I'm not making TV so right
now I'm in the process of losing my
permit for commercial use I have a
trapping cabin permit but honestly I'm
not interested in trapping I did some
trapping when I first went out there but
it's not something that I'm gonna do to
you know sell fur and make money and
that's what that permits for so I'm
probably going to be giving that up so
but so so you're not allowed to even
keep that cabin up there if that cat was
the case I had to take it down really
yeah I had to take that cabin down right
now I have a tent up there because that
cabin was illegal when they gave me my
permits just last year I had to remove
the illegal cabin and I had a permit to
build a new cabin with my friends in the
new cabin and the old cabin the new
cabin was going to be legal because it
had a permit they can't give you a
permit for any illegal cabin but they so
they can't give you a permit for cabinet
okay they're back rats why don't you
tell them listen come back tomorrow want
to take this apart and put it back
together again exactly the same way so
tomorrow when you come back it'll be the
new cabin exactly this is the old cabin
it was time for an upgrade I go I've got
four kids now Joe that place is 100
square feet
hmm I was kind of excited about building
a new cabin but yeah that 200 square
foot mom write something huge I think
it's 400 they said I could go up to 400
so they said yeah but uh how big is that
the room right now I we all we live in a
what is this this room is bigger than
400 feet Wow
so you live in something smaller than
this hole
right now we live in a 600 square foot
cabin whoa
in Fairbanks yeah that's huge for me we
lived in a 200 square foot one until
just well I think it was like a year ago
so you living in the place where you
built when you bought the piece of land
yeah except I've expanded over the years
I started off with one acre and then as
I could afford it I bought up my
neighbor's I got six acres and three
cabins now oh nice
now do the neighbors look at you weird
because you're that guy lives in the
woods on TV um not that I know about
they didn't mention it no yeah they know
you tell everybody what you do know they
know they just know they watch TV a lot
it's Fairbanks laughs cuz Dark One's
nothing to do right are they weirded out
by you see you on TV and see you right
there I don't think so no just normal
person yeah but even if you're a normal
person you're if you're a normal person
on television you're not a normal person
people get weird and they mention it
they mention hey we you're on TV they in
the beginning I mean I bet I was been on
TV now for six years it's not like we
talked about it normally what a like the
people in your town like Fairbanks is a
real City it's about 40,000 people I
think it's a small city but it's as big
of a cities you got northern Alaska the
only place Biggers Anchorage and that's
an 8 8 hour drive away yeah and how many
people is Anchorage
that's good whew it's got to be what is
anchored now 300,000 maybe 400,000
almost somewhere in there I had loving
like half the people in Alaska live in
Anchorage I think really I've only been
there once spent a couple days there we
did some gigs me and my friend Ari
Shaffir and did some salmon fishing up
there comedy gigs yeah we did comedy up
there oh cool yeah we just had on a whim
we said hey let's book a gig where we
can fish during the day and then do
stand-up at night so we did that for a
couple days it was fun oh yeah but it's
just the people up there were really
cool man like a really there's something
about people that live where nature is
inescapable
like nature and the wilderness and it's
like it is impossible to not be aware
of where you are like where we live here
in California is so alien and so
non-intuitive it's just not how human
beings have evolved and it's a really
recent thing that any human beings ever
live like this
yeah but there's something in your DNA
that sort of cries out to the times that
make sense to the places that make sense
and that's one of the appeals of your
show that's one of the appeals of living
very close to the wilderness living very
close to the woods because these tasks
that you have to do just acquiring food
and water and and and you know staying
warm and dealing with nature all those
things are enormous ly appealing to
people that are stuck in a situation
like I am oh yeah I don't say I'm stuck
like I'm in some terrible place but it's
great I probably got a little better
than most of us but the thing is we're
separated more and more from our origins
and it definitely has an effect we gave
up a lot for comfort yeah we gave up a
lot we gave up a lot of our vitality mm
well you know I love to jump in the lake
and swim every day from the time I can
get in the moat next to the ice and that
water is like 32 and a half degrees whoa
and it's so invigorating yeah it's great
for it's amazing ice baths what a fleet
stew them yeah and just little things
like if you don't have a toilet which I
still don't have a toilet even in
Fairbanks I mean if you squat you have a
toilet in Fairbanks no no bro a toilets
a big thing man I don't know if I can
afford a toilet it's you got to have a
septic system you got to have plumbing
you got I don't have any of that stuff
I don't you're buying all this land if
you your biology land you can't buy a
toilet lands cheap toilets expensive you
gotta have the right kind of land to
have a septic system yeah the land that
I buy is is boggy it's it's spruce
forest it's like you'd have to it's
complicated then you leave town I like
to be able to go to the bush for six
months milliner your pipes freeze you
gotta have a house-sitter then you gotta
have you
a furnace friend 21st day all gets a
wood stove right it gets complicated man
I like to keep it simple
Wow really simple I mean maybe I think I
always tell people they say why you have
a toy I like can't afford toilet they
like come on you know for a toilet you
got an airplane you got this here that I
was like maybe if I had I don't know 5
million 10 million I might think about
getting a place with toilet I don't have
that much that's so crazy
5 million bucks I'd get a toilet maybe
maybe maybe 5 million I don't think
about it Wow
because it's a full it's a huge change
first of all I couldn't live on that
land where I live really I mean I could
but it'd be way too complicated and get
like I said I don't want worry about
house sitters freezing pipes away about
rises about houses um you know my
favorite way to go I don't like
outhouses I like to squat and just poop
on the ground and I'll tell you
something ok if you want to poop inside
five gallon bucket little plastic bag
you poop in your house in a bucket this
times oh Jesus look but you're in this
tiny little house look that's big the
little one a hundred square feet now I
don't use the movement there but
actually sometimes you got it when it's
like l0
I go outside when I'm in a 100 square
always look people I think the the UN's
working against open defecation I think
that's what they call they spend
millions dollars you're trying to get
people stop pooping on the ground in the
Brooks ranges all over the world in
Bangladesh
yeah but that's because yes people
living rice too many people that's
that's the only problem
population density well if you have
enough land it's not an issue in the
Brooks Range
I've been pooping in the same spot for
the last 20 years probably about 1/4 the
size of this room and you can't even
tell I've ever pooped there it goes back
to nature
I don't even compost I don't even do
anything I just poop on the ground in
the same area and it just goes back into
nature the only trying to make a little
mound
no it doesn't doesn't build up just just
or something we're rats right rat see
delicious gray Jays eat it gray Jays
what sage wolves I've had wolves come
eat my shit oh boy
first wolf I ever trapped set the trap
right in front of my poop pile oh god he
came in for your shit and got killed
yeah I thought he'd eaten shit before
there let me Laura man with this tasty
treat no but it really does it it you
know that's the thing as people are
separated from nature now and so
something simple like a simple solution
to a problem pooping on the ground you
know if you're in a rural area if you
got space there is no problem with that
really it goes back into the earth where
do you think the Bears the Moose the
caribou they all go underground it's not
a big problem it goes back into the
earth
well you're living in a largely
uninhabited place yeah that's in a large
place yeah yeah so when you dropped a
log next to the trap for the wolf you
knew what you were doing you were doing
that on purpose to lure men well I
always poop in the same place the same
general place but a wolf had come and
eaten the poop you'd noticed yeah see
the tracks have up the poop Oh wolf came
here last night and ate my last poop oh
how do you feel about that just normal
you feel different when you live out in
the woods Joe it's that you get a whole
different mentality different ethics you
don't think about that's no big deal
this pool right there's blood there's
guts there's poop there's right wolves
and caribou with their legs ripped open
and it's different so were you
trapping and selling the skins I usually
was trapping for my own family use you
know like the kids had mukluks and
mittens and and ruffs and all this stuff
trapping out of wolf out of Wolverine
out of Martens
you know those are the main things up
there's wolves Wolverines there's some
Marten there's a few Fox or eating a
Marten yeah I think just about
everything what's a Marten tastes like
like a weasel
they're better the better they're to
tell you the truth to me a Martin's just
about as good as a snowshoe here but I
don't really like snowshoe hares like I
said I like to stick to ungulates why
don't you like snowshoe hares I don't
think they're they're very good compared
to a caribou or compared to a moose just
taste wise taste wise they're small
tedious I'm just not I'm not big on
small game tedious in terms of like room
well in terms of hones the amount of
effort the time you know to go catch
them to skin em to some people they
really are get into it but like for me
okay
I have caribou usually most years in
that area I have moose always in the
fall I mean I go out hunting maybe five
six days I got a moose I got five
hundred pounds of meat there's not very
many snowshoe hares around where I am
there's not that much brush I'm up high
in the mountains so how many bullets are
you bringing with you when you go out
there for long periods of time oh I'll
have a few packs a man this is funny
story though because when Tricia came to
meet me the first time you know we had a
long-distance meeting right we we met
over Facebook over the internet after
haha so uh she slide into your DMS did
you slide into hers DMS you don't know
about that
no I don't be in the dark I'm trying to
get up to speed like I said it is rate
messages Oh direct my sis right yeah I
do I have heard about that she sent me a
friend requests and you know as I was
looking for a woman that's what I mean
that's why I went on Facebook actually
in the beginning really that's that was
one of my motives for doing the show I
remember when when the producer came up
there and met me I was like hey you
think this is a help me find a new woman
I'm looking for a woman I mean I just
spent the whole the whole winter by
myself right I get it I'm only human I
get it trying to find a woman out in the
woods
it isn't easy I mean every day I get up
you know fix up my hair and stuff go out
and didn't see any I mean you think it's
hard hunting moose and caribou up there
try hunting for a woman up there I would
imagine it's very difficuit far between
so I had to slim pickins
I had to get modern yeah I get it anyway
Tricia came for our first date we had
one date afford a date before she
decided to move
and live with me Jesus Christ that
woman's crazy you got a good one and she
told me she wasn't adventurous
she wasn't adventurous that's what she
said she hangs out with you for four
days then moves in with you was quite a
job we spent oh yeah she left her you
know gave up her apartment sold most of
her stuff Jesus Christ but we talked
every day you know for what three months
before the date Wow
we were communicating every day a little
bit was this why you were at the shack
no I was at that time I didn't even have
internet up at the shack I do have I did
get Internet in 2017 eventually at the
shack yeah how did you do that I had to
actually get certified as a satellite
internet installer oh yeah yeah I'm a
certified satellite internet installer
maybe they'll be my next career you know
Wow I can't get another gig in TV maybe
I'll take a stall and satellite internet
so you got certified and what are you
using the power at solar no battery and
a generator run generator once in a
while and it doesn't take much
electricity got a big battery and then
you link up it's real slow I can never
post video or anything but it was cool
because then I could start doing
Facebook posts and you know other social
media I could put pictures from right
there right then rather than one next
time I came to Tahoe so your upload is
extremely slow right yeah it's really
slow it's I don't think I'm even gonna
maintain that system but I don't even
know if I'm gonna maintain I can't tell
you the truth but I'm gonna keep going
to the wilderness I'm gonna keep having
experiences out there and I'm gonna keep
finding ways to share with people but I
don't know exactly the future of you
know that particular spot in that
particular cell anybody visit you up
there you mean just random yeah just
know that knew about you from the show
no they always say they're gonna come or
something yeah good luck if anybody's
straggled in art help them out but no
it's it's a big project people get and
maybe who knows how close they've gotten
before they turned around you maybe
somebody drove all the way up the haul
road and chickened out after the first
day walk and I got no idea yeah I
guarantee you some people
but how many bullets do I carry how much
I mean it's now my so Trisha comes up
for four-day date after we'd
communicated for three months and tell
to bring some ball she was she had tons
of ammo in her apartment down in Boston
she really oh yes yes a wild lady she
had guns and ammo and everything but she
came up to visit and after you know a
day or so together I decided that I want
to take her out to the camp you know I
said hey got any plans for tomorrow I
want to go the Brooks Range so uh I
wanted to fly up there so she could see
the place to know what she was getting
into right mm-hmm and we're packing and
I like I think I threw in like ten
rounds of ammo we're just gonna go for
the day she had to be back at work you
know she just came for a long weekend
and she's like what that's all you're
taking ten rounds well we're not even
going hunting this is just like in case
in case a bear happens to attack us I
mean ten rounds that's a lot like I go
months without shooting ten rounds
ammunition so I she convinced me to take
a full box I think but I don't carry a
lot of ammunition no I think I started
carrying a little more nicer I think
usually when I go moose hunting I'll
throw in a box off 20 rounds of me but I
never use I mean I've never used
anywhere near that much so it seemed to
me that you would need do you do have a
tool or anything deciding your rifle
just in case something goes wrong with
the site talking about a target yeah I
got a target okay
you have a target yeah but there's tools
you know where you don't have to fire
off around oh no I don't yes or siting
yeah it's like a bore sighting it's like
a laser and it has it set up like
literally you can have your rifle zeroed
in at a hundred in like two shots are
usually get a zeroed in you know three
or six or something it but I definitely
never goes far out yeah shoot 200 yards
I have my target 200 yards like right in
front of my camp I shoot across the lake
there when it's dead calm mm-hm and I
hardly ever have to adjust I scope I
mean that I'm so happy with that gun
that's the all
only rifle I have ever killed a large
animal within my life
Wow what's the calibre 3006 I bought
that gun for $550 in 2003 and I never
needed another centerfire rifle it's a
classic rifle it's about sex
Ruger Fairness m77 was it called m77
marked and knee - what kind of site are
you using on that it's got a two to
seven powers to go the difference is
that's an older picture there was nobody
up there with me actually took that
picture myself but that was before I got
my suppressor I only got a suppressor
I'm all about suppressors yeah I wish
they were illegal in California they're
not no they're not I mean I think
they're worried that people be sniping
people or sometimes that's it's kind of
stupid it's it's it's ignorant because
for hunting purposes like one of the
biggest problems like I have a friend of
mine my friend Cody he's his ears blown
out because he was working as a guide
and someone fired off a shot right near
his ear now as to wear hearing aids it's
all it takes is one shot if you're close
to the muzzle mm-hmm that's why I got a
suppressor I really think this is a very
important thing so many people are
damaging their hearing without even
realizing it yep yep 100 percent hundred
percent it's it's a lot of guys did it
when they're young a lot of my friends
they go with a suppressor that's a
that's actually a different gun but that
one I've never killed in with but that
is the suppressor that the problem is
when you're hunting it's not practical
to use your protection right and if you
hunt regularly that adds up over time it
adds up but you shoot a rifle that's a
hundred and sixty decibels
why are they making a law that you have
to damage your hearing to go hunting
right why why they making a law where
you have to cover your ears with
something the reason being is because
they're worried about urban situations
are worried about people shooting at
people and you know you're not hearing
anything but you do hear something
though yeah you hear a parent
oh no you hear a lot more than that have
you ever shot suppressed rights like a
crack well it depends on what you're
shooting but assuming it's hypersonic
supersonic it's still loud like a third
party us
without a suppressor is about a hundred
and sixty decibels
that's deafening you put a suppressor on
it it's like 130 it knocks it down about
30 decibels more or less it's still very
loud it's are there different levels of
suppressor I bought the best suppressor
I could get if you want to make a gun
shoot like in the movies just silent
like a little pop you have to shoot
subsonic that's not practical for
hunting oh you have to you have to now
I'm questioning whether or not I've
actually used the suppressor well I feel
like I did at one point in time someone
somewhere let me shoot their rifle that
had a suppressor on but it might might
be a false memory now you can put
subsonic ammo in there you can you have
I shot subsonic 22s 3030 I say you can
load it subsonic you can buy 308
ammunition subsonic and it's very quiet
but it's going so slow
that it's not effective to hunt moose or
carry with right yeah but yeah they're
still allowed if I mean pretty loud in
compare I have a muzzle break on my
seven millimeter that's really well oh
it's a cannon yeah but I actually met a
person once who was just about deaf he
was like stone deaf from one shotgun
blast he was in a canoe and somebody
shot kind of in a position where the
muzzle was right next to his ear yeah
yeah that's how it always is it's always
someone shooting near you just blows
your eardrums out it's terrible yeah but
so in California you cannot have
suppressors but again I think that's
what they're worried about and I think
it's just there's a lot of ignorance
it's a lot of people that just don't
know enough about about firearms that
are making the regulations but I think
that would be the worry that would
people be shooting and you wouldn't be
able to hear it well I think that there
might be other ways to deal with that
because we're hunting I think it's super
reasonable to be able to have something
where you don't have to have ear
protection on all the time and you can
it make it look just less disturbing for
all the people also that are in the
mountains if you're on public land and
you're hunting deer and you hear
boom like over the side of the hill it's
kind of gross yeah even in countries
that have more regulations on firearms
they're places where you can use
suppressors from what I've heard I mean
I haven't researched extensively but I
think in Britain even people have
suppressors and in New Zealand Australia
different places yeah yeah I do 99.9
percent of my hunting with a bow and
arrow that's awesome but it's not a I'm
not doing it because I need you know
it's not like a subsistence thing I
don't need it absolutely just I love our
tree I love hunting archery too because
you have to get close yeah you know
that's where it's at that's what I love
doing is getting close like some guys
will brag about oh I shot this moose 600
yards way I always like to get close
yeah it's just more interesting isn't
because you learn more about the animal
yeah it's more intense - it's um it's
also it requires more skill I feel like
these sounds fucked up but I feel like
the animal has more of a chance like if
if I'm inside you know 60 yards shooting
an enamel that animal has way more
chance to get the fuck away from me
way more chance for me to blow it to
step on a twig or it to catch my wind or
it makes it more difficult yeah and it's
just archery is it's there's nothing
this set like rifles for sure are the
best way to gather meat for sure no
doubt about it
boom one shot there down you know you
hit him in the breadbasket boom it's
over
but archery requires way more discipline
in there's so many ways it can fuck up
there's so many ways it can go wrong and
but there's that requirement that you
have of yourself to practice and to be
to be able to execute like when the the
time is now it's it's hard it's very
very difficult to do yeah and because of
that it's like that from my brain that I
find that very appealing I'm very I
gravitate towards difficult things like
that yeah you know but it's also very
people say it's not as humane listen man
people wound
deer and elk and moose all the time with
a rifle you know if you make a bad shot
and people make bad and I've made bad
shots people make bad shots it's like
you it's bad no matter what but with a
bow and arrow you'd be amazed how lethal
it is oh I'm not surprised because you
get that big broad cutting edge going
right through their lungs I mean they
hammer it's quick they die quick I mean
I shot an elk at to hone ranch last year
and it was down in four yards it stepped
one two three four boom dead just shot
it in the heart you know and I've shot
moose through both lungs and had him go
50 yards something they're so tough
incredibly - they're so tough moose is
such an enormous animal - when you when
you see one down and you look at the
bones on that thing you look good Lord
what an enormous animal yeah you know
just out there eating twigs and trying
to stay the fuck away from wolves crazy
existence they have yeah but this is an
amazing amount of respect and
appreciation you have for them - when
they're down what you're looking at like
this is my food because I'm gonna I'm
gonna eat this there's gonna be a lot of
food yeah you know I feed my dog with
elk my dog mostly yeah I'm allowed to do
that yeah that's legal well why wouldn't
that be legal in Alaska you can't feed
game meat to dogs why because trying to
allot the game to people who want to eat
it so many dogs up there you know dog
teams and you used to be a little one
time in history but you can't you can
feed the guts or something but you can't
feed me to the dogs but you can feed
salmon to them yeah that's gigantic
amount of more Hammond just to feed
their dogs because they're more fish
than there are caribou oh I see well the
way I look at it's like he's a member of
my family yeah I mean my dog is he's my
buddy you're not seeing the whole dog
team well yeah and also I guess that's
what it is right in Alaska they have
giant sled teams do a lot of dogs yeah
yeah that's interesting though that it's
illegal it's it seems like you should be
able to do whatever you want me could
feed your dog steak if you wanted to you
can go to the grocery store and buy your
dog hamburger if you really wanted to
why couldn't you feed him gamey
I mean you got a tag you know you should
be able that long ago who gets utilized
there all sorts of rules and regulations
they discriminate against dogs that's
what it is
they discriminate against all sorts of
people anybody that's not they're making
the rule I guess weird a lot of dog
owners around that day but no I mean
think about it every every rule we make
it's just a game now this the technology
exists if you wanted to use a guided
missile you'd kill the every animal
right yeah so you gotta you gotta have
limits on the technology for you you
personally prefer to use a bow and arrow
for me I use a rifle I would definitely
use a rifle if I was in your situation
right some percent some guys want to go
hunt with a helicopter right and they've
made that illegal in Alaska because
there aren't that many people that could
afford to go home with the helicopter
sway I look at it there's not that many
people that could afford to go home with
a helicopter therefore they didn't have
much power in making the regulations and
so when you say hunt with a helicopter
you mean hunt out of a helicopter you
can't even use a helicopter to transport
hunters gave me hunting equipment
anything really right so the idea is to
make it more difficult for them to get
to play someplace like the Chugach or
something like that some some places
difficult to get to the mountains the
idea is the people that don't want to
use helicopters are the ones you get to
vote don't want people to use
helicopters I understand I mean I'm not
saying I want people to bill use
helicopters I'm just saying maybe if a
lot of people wanted to use helicopters
to hunt you know cuz they know you're
you've got a certain number of animals
that can be taken and maintain the
population right so the technology to
take them it doesn't matter in terms of
the animals don't care they don't care
if they're getting shot with a machine
gun they don't care if they're getting
hunted out of a helicopter you've got a
herd of so many thousand caribou you
want to take a certain number out every
year it's going to maintain the
population but now it's all got to be
regulated so it's like some people want
to hunt on foot maybe they would prefer
that you couldn't use an airplane
because the people that are flying with
airplanes are they going to be competing
against this person on foot yeah
but the way it all balances out a lot of
people like to use fixed-wing airplanes
they're relatively economical so you can
use that you cannot use a helicopter in
Alaska the transport hunters meat or
hunting a quote about scouting can you
use one Scout helicopter I don't believe
so that would be a problem if you were
on the ground if someone's flying above
you in a helicopter spooking things I've
heard people say that that's happened to
them before the regulations are getting
so thick I don't even keep up on every
detail that doesn't apply to me but I
believe that now there's some
regulations you can't you can't even
scout out of a fixed-wing airplane at
least in in certain situations if I know
there's places like that in the United
States or in the lower 48 rather yeah
there's a lot of people we're doing that
for sheep I mean I would see that even
in in such a remote area where I am
there's a lot of guided sheep hunting
right and you'd see these little super
Cubs flying around the mountains looking
for the Sheep that's the ultimate rich
guy trip yeah hunting in Alaska is a
very very expensive and they go you know
deep into it's like their ultimate
adventure you know and then they have
wild sheep hunting Federation and all
these uh guys you know they spend shit
tons of money to go to these really
remote areas get someone to take them in
tour to get a big sheep get a big Ram
and some people don't like that but on
the other hand aren't those people that
are spending twenty thousand dollars to
go get a sheep or whatever they're
tapping into this same same basic desire
that I have or that anybody that goes
hunting has I mean they want that
experience of getting out there into the
wild I think doing something primal I
think with people have an issue with
anything that's really expensive that
only a few people get to do you know as
soon as you hear about that and it's
also it's like it becomes it's a sheep
hunters are like it's an interesting
breed of people you know they're really
into sheep hunting and apparently it's a
lot of the factors like the danger you
know you're hiking on shale and like
extremely very very like steep Heights
and real big drop
and very steep cliffs and it's like I've
never done it but the people that say
they like it's the ultimate yeah yeah
exciting really got really exciting they
live in these really remote places it's
hard to get to and once you're
successful it's like it's so difficult
to do that once you're successful it's a
huge huge relief it feels very exciting
and happy and the food's delicious I've
had sheep I've had wild sheep before my
friend Remy gave me some some backstraps
yeah I love she yeah what other animals
are you we were you hunting when you up
there anything unusual for big animals
the only the only thing around is moose
you Sarah shot one one grizzly I shot
one grizzly that was becoming a problem
that night I had a moose in the camp my
wife and the little baby were there it's
time to my and my daughter was only
three years old and my son was you know
just months old and this moose was
hanging there I just killed it a week or
so before and a grizzly was coming
around that night trying to get that
moose meat and I chased it away a few
times and he kept coming back and you
know eventually I shot right over the
bear trying to scare it off cuz
sometimes that'll work if just chasing
them off doesn't work and but it still
he was walking toward me at 16 yards
when I shot it Oh God
16 yards they could run 16 yards so fast
yeah he was just walking he wasn't thank
God he wasn't running yeah he wasn't
trying to get me but he was I just
couldn't have that bear hanging out
there trying to get that moose that I
had there in the camp yeah so you shot
him and ate him yeah what was that like
oh the fat was unbelievably good man the
meat for me bear meat like I said is not
my first choice I liked it but I'd only
have a desire to eat it once every four
or five days you know it's not like
something I wanted to eat pounds of
every day the way I can caribou and
moose it's just different the fat was
unbelievable it's stunk terrible like I
took all the the fat out of the the
internal and the abdominal fat and all
that stuff too and boy did it smell bad
just like bear gut
you know it just stung and I remember
Sylvia saying you're gonna eat that
stuff and I was like I don't know try it
so I rendered it and you know just
heated it up until it liquefied mm-hmm
and when that cooled back down no bad
flavor at all it was like almost
tasteless isn't the mildest fat you've
ever had really yeah that cured the bad
the bad smell and I don't know we'll get
past that though not a lot and it's not
it different it's bare fats real soft
it's it's real soft at room temperature
it's not like you know sheep fats hard
moose fat caribou thighs slightly soft
or maybe then sheep fat but it's still
hard fat bear fat is soft and creamy and
so it was nice variety that winter to
have all that bear fat it was really
nice variety but I learned something
from that just a practical thing that
for some reason I don't understand the
chemistry behind it if you got some fat
that tasted funny if you heat it up
really hot and cool it back down it'll
take that away how'd it happen with
moose fat once it was getting old so it
was getting a little rancid and I tried
it i heated it up until it got just
about to the smoking point cooled it
back down and it tasted way better
really yeah what do you think he's doing
that I don't know I never looked into it
mm-hmm I think that would be something
you'd want to look into not really just
a little practical Boy Scout trick once
you know you know that's it you don't
need another magic behind it so so you
take what did you do with the bear hide
turn it into a blanket still still have
that hide wow it's beautiful bear it
really was yeah how big was it I think
was just over six feet it wasn't huge
because the Bears up there don't get is
big I mean they don't have salmon up
where I am away by mountains but it was
a real light color bear there's a
picture of that one you might pull up
yeah that's it there's another picture
with right after I shot it on the beach
there but in the in the photos right on
the first page there whatever they're
called
those ones that you can keep on this
Facebook
oh you're just because the Facebook page
I can't zoom in for some also so that
bear was super light-colored all its
claws are white they're on white yeah
this is beautiful hide really then you
keep the claws on the hide when you make
the blanket yeah I just it was the only
bear I ever dealt with I skinned it all
out like taxidermy you know I left all
the claws and the lips and the eyelids
and everything it took a long time and
then it--and it myself it was a big
project I built a big stretcher and had
it all now what do you use to tan it I
used the same thing I used on wolf or
Wolverine which is like a diluted
battery acid basically really yeah
what's the old way these do these these
brains right yeah there's you can tan
with brains I hear but I never got into
that somebody showed me this battery
acid tanning system way back when I when
I first went up there and started
trapping and it worked really well for
me so I stuck to that how does that work
it's been a long time since I did it but
you just dilute the battery acid is very
diluted and I forgot the exact
proportions because it's been been a
while but it's very very diluted and
then you add a lot of salt also and you
want to get the proportions right so you
want to look into before you try it but
that's all that's in it the solution is
just battery acid water and salt and sea
and rot battery acid
up there just yeah you don't it's so
concentrated it's like a little little
package I flew it out there like one
time is enough for five years or so and
you flew it out there just for tanning
yeah Wow yeah and that system then
you'll the other thing you need is
baking soda you have to neutralize it
you have to get the pH back to neutral
after you're done tanning it here it is
seven gallons of water to to cut two
pounds of brain wait wait about that
thought the what I used 16 cups of plain
or pickling salt salts good okay this is
but there's the battery acid three and a
half cups battery acid from auto parts
store two boxes baking soda yeah yeah
that's pretty much it except you can
skip the bran flakes
what about foot oil what the fuck is
foot oil neat's foot oil you know use
that stuff oh yeah that's well you got a
soften the hide afterward you got to put
the oil back into it
is that what foreign oil is yeah
neat's-foot oil where people's feet
they make that from sheep feet or
something oh really I can't remember no
I don't know it's something they call it
neat's-foot oil but it's just a oil that
you used to preserve leather oh you put
it on your baseball glove neat's-foot is
supposed to be one word at least when I
just googled it
Oh neat lol rendered from purified shin
bones and feet of cattle I don't kow how
weird so good we go sir I just gonna say
we're talking an awful lot about traffic
hunting stuff like that but there's so
much more out there oh yeah I'm sure
it's it's like the whole that's that was
my problem in reality TV everybody when
they hear that you've been attacked by
wolves that's all they want to hear
about for sure yeah for sure but there's
so much more yeah it's uh you know it's
a whole different experience the
consciousness you get into a whole
different space space is different I
mean look at how come fine we are now
what what you think about is as space
down here I mean you riding an airplane
now you just got a few feet around you
right and out there you've got space
space as far as you can see you stand on
the top of the mountain you look hard
enough you can see the back here ahead
just about yeah I mean it's yeah there's
a lot those mountains stretch for 600
miles yeah and it changes your
perception because not only is there all
that space but it's not all chopped up
into little pieces you can basically
walk anywhere you want you can go
anywhere your legs will carry you you
feel very free if you ever run into
another person while you were out there
one time when I was walking from the
road to my camp I met another person
really headed the opposite direction we
were both travelling along a creek of
course you know you follow natural
routes walk in the gravel bars mmm how
weird was that it was very weird and
this is the thing when you live without
many people around and you spend periods
of time totally in isolation you really
appreciate humans that's one of the
great benefits of it you know you
appreciate anything you go without go
without food you go without sex you go
without people and me and this guy we
sat down we talked for like a couple
hours really which I'm doing he was just
going for a hike he had had some had
hired a plane to fly him to a place that
was a long ways away like he was walking
I think a hundred miles back to that
road that I had left and we just
happened to be following the same Creek
just walking down the
gravel bars and we met up Midland over
so we sat down and we talked and talked
and then we went our separate ways Wow
exchanged numbers or anything no I think
I still remember his name though but
this was years and years and years ago
long time ago that must have been really
weird all those different times you're
out there by yourself yeah all sudden
you see a guy yeah yeah it was that was
really that's the only time I met
somebody at random on the ground ever
you know I've had one time when some
hunters flew there and landed and they
were thinking of hunting there but after
they talked to me for a while I
convinced them to go somewhere else but
I mean there's plenty of space is no
reason for two people be hunting the
same area yeah especially out there but
yeah I mean almost never meet anybody so
it's different you know you really
appreciate people and that's something
that I've always noticed when when I was
out there a long time if you see anybody
if it's a state trooper that stops in
and you haven't seen anybody for three
months I mean it's great you know you
you uh you invite them in you talk to
people you don't just it's not like when
you got a lot of people around you can't
communicate with everybody you have to
ignore people I know you liked a lot of
aspects of living up there but what's
like is there one thing that really
stands out one thing would definitely be
the autonomy the independence I think is
this a natural need that humans have you
watch a little baby when they learn to
crawl they start separating from their
mother a little bit then they start to
learn to stand up but they're still
holding on to the wall then they start
taking their first steps and it's like
wow I can stand on my own feet you know
they get all excited and start running
along before very long mm-hmm and I
think we just need that feeling of
Independence some people more than
others but it's the same basic thing for
me it's just like to be out there
totally independent on my own nobody
else is gonna help me if I have a
problem
you know if I'm up on a mountain and I
don't have a satellite following me I
got to be able to walk back to my camp I
have to be able to there's literally no
choice
right and just to have that degree of
responsibility mmm that in modern
society you don't have you can't have
that degree of responsibility in modern
society for yourself you can't have that
level of Independence it's standing on
your own is it hard for you to like come
to a place like LA like what is it weird
like what is it what's the feeling when
you're driving on the 405 from the
airport headed over to the studio you
had to be you have to be like why the
fuck would anybody live here no no no I
find it fascinating it's it's
interesting because it's a different
environment I mean I'm very curious
about the way people live everywhere but
I do find myself realizing why I don't
live in a big city you know yeah I find
it very really nice interesting me
sleeping have a shower it's like well
this is cold water toilet a toy I don't
we have oil to the toilets here did you
use one yet yeah tell but they build
them too high I'm used to squatting and
Oh squat you can get a squatty potty
know what that is
no they basically yeah it's like a thing
that they put underneath the toilet you
put your feet on oh yeah sort of put
your butt in the right position I'll ask
I'll ask the front desk they're going
tonight I don't think they will say yes
but that's what you're supposed to have
right you're supposed to be in a
position where you're squatting that's
the natural position for humans to shit
it works for me that's another thing I
like about it out there okay there's the
autonomy that independence is very
important and I think a lot of people
are missing that and that's why they're
attracted to to learn something about
that life but also just like I said when
you do these basic things to be taking a
crap it could be taking a shower or
whatever in in a different way out in
nature I mean you can't a lot of people
can't bathe outside they want to they
don't have the privacy here this but
when that's your your normal thing I
mean it becomes a totally natural thing
and it's like very healthy and it's
beautiful like it kind of you're out
there looking at mountains all around
and they
your little Tweety birds flying by while
you're bathing you know you're not
sealed off in some little fiberglass
cubicle hmm yeah did everything yeah
it's it's a 100% different way of living
life and your perceptions change your
senses change in the modern world
there's a lot of extraneous noise and
imagery that we're filtering out all the
time you can't pay attention to
everything did you ever get injured
while you're up there yeah yeah but you
can't pay attention to everything I'll
get to it okay you can't pay attention
to everything so you're filtering stuff
out all the time right right and when
you're out in that environment it's very
quiet you're not getting inundated with
all of this extraneous noise and you're
instead of filtering you're tuning in
you're really tuning in like one little
bird that hasn't been around the valley
flies through I'll know it I'll hear it
Wow hey that was a pine grosbeak I
haven't heard one of those for a while
mm-hmm you're paying attention to
everything and that's really different
it changes it changes the way you think
there's a feeling that you get when
you're in the real wilderness like
particularly we did some hunting on
Prince of Wales yeah and you know when
you're you're out there it's raining
rains every day hmm and there's this
feeling of beautiful isolation like
you're really isolated I mean you're
really alone there's no you don't see
anything you don't hear anything and
there's this indifference that Nature
has towards you that's really humbling
it's like it puts you in your place yeah
humans need that they need to be put in
their place like I always say that some
of the nicest people live near mountains
and live near the ocean I think the
reason being is the ocean just lets you
know hey bitch look at that you ain't
shit look at that water so you can't you
can't survive there and did knowing that
there's something right there that you
can't survive in it's like a there's it
checks you a little bit the mountains
check
the sheer beauty and the vastness like
if you know you're looking out at the
continental divide and you see the the
Rocky Mountains it's like it's humbling
it's humbling on the one hand you feel
really strong being able to do what
you're doing there but on the other hand
you feel really small yeah really
vulnerable really insignificant tell me
about how you got injured I've had
problems with tendons a few times I've
had some weird medical issues at
different times like things that most
people wouldn't have done here like what
the it's okay if we diverge from injury
to illness sure sure
well one time I was starving the time I
ate the weasels this was a protracted
starvation like I literally was having a
famine for a couple of months where I
was always getting a little bit of food
but not enough how much weight did you
lose a lot I didn't have a scale right
but I got real skinny real skinny like
first I lost all my fat then I literally
lost my muscles and I got really weak I
still going out looking for food every
day but I couldn't go as far I couldn't
climb up to 5000 foot mountains anymore
I got that week and this is over months
over months Wow didn't have enough food
for a couple of months and you couldn't
fish this is in the winter ice the ice
is very thick back then the ice used to
get thicker back then it is usually
about four feet of ice on a lake by late
winter
now some winters have only had two and a
half feet but anyway I I would try
fishing but there's not that many fish
there this is a little Lake a mile
across isolated in the mountains the
fish that are in the lakes stay there
like this they're also smaller they
don't grow as fast you can expend a lot
of effort chiseling through remember I
don't have a power auger or anything
chiseling through three four feet of ice
trying to catch fish that are you know
this long and this big around so I was
you know trying to be as efficient as
possible I had out a lot of snares for
snowshoe hares they're not many
snowshoes there's not much small game
but I was catching a little bit every
day I'd like I'd get a grouse I would
get a ptarmigan I'd get a rabbit but I
was I was gradually getting weaker and
weaker and thinner so what happened to
me health-wise though was that
eventually when I got food I just ate as
much as I could eat for three or four
days all I did was eat sleep and shit
literally and I got refeeding edema whoa
which at the time I didn't recognize I
didn't even know what it was but you can
actually die if you refigure self too
fast like World War two when they were
liberating concentration camps
soldiers didn't notice they're given
prisoners all the food they wanted to
eat and some people got this refeeding
edema to get pulmonary edema and
literally die Wow and you know disaster
relief people that go into like famine
areas and whatnot they know about this
now you can't give people unlimited food
I didn't know about that so I get edema
and it was weird I just thought like I
was getting fat or something but it was
actually retaining fluids and I didn't
find out four months later I was talking
to a doctor about what happened to me
said you got refeeding edema so you were
just living with it yeah it didn't last
that long
like I don't remember exactly how long
it lasted but within two weeks of when I
got food I was like all puffy and I'm
like what the hell's going on I couldn't
put on weight this fast but it was
actually just fluid that my body was
like my chest was I remember Sylvia
pushing on saying you're all like spongy
and I was like he hasn't that weird
because I had been like you know how'd
you feel skin and bones
if I just felt hungry still I was just
well not for two weeks but man for days
all I did was eat until my stomach just
couldn't take anymore
Wow what did you gotten is that when you
had gotten the caribou from knows that's
when I guess store bought I got store
bought food a friend of mine flew in the
the thing that had happened was we had
this arrangement where somebody supposed
to come partway through the winter that
we knew that was going to bring in food
and and some supplies and I kept
thinking like I just want to survive I
want to
through it like my goals to live off the
land as much as I can and we got this
arrangement anyway Tim's gonna bring us
some supplies later in the winter I'm
just gonna see the best I can do you
know and I just kept going on getting
small game then what happened was even
when you got a plane coming it's hard
sometimes to get in up there and also
you know my friend was working during
the week he could only come on weekends
the weather was bad this weekend and
then he couldn't come and maybe there
was some other issue with the plane or
something he just kept getting delayed
and it got to be a real problem finally
I was like I sent him a message on that
Sat phone I was like hey Tim you know
like I'm starving up here I've been
living on muskrats and and snowshoe
hares and not enough of them you you got
to come next weekend or make sure
somebody else gets in here because I was
really worried about my health at that
point then he did get in there and he
dropped off all this food and I just
picked out Wow and I got refeeding edema
what kind of food I always just would
get basic food I'm talking like beans
and rice oats rice legumes powdered milk
something I used to get you know yeah
and then not long after that in February
in the middle of February the caribou
showed up that year and I got five
caribou at one time out on the island on
the lake
and then you know we were all set again
we're used to famine yeah it is it's
like a hungry country but there are a
lot of animals but they just they're
different places you can fly over the
Arctic all day long and I see hardly
anything yeah that's a weird part about
it right you would think there's animals
everywhere no it's almost like a desert
it is it's like the Sahara Desert up
there a lot of times but there are a lot
of animals concentrated the caribou are
contrary this herds of a hundred
thousand caribou but 100,000 yeah
at certain times a year when they all
congregate there can be a hundred
thousand that's insane yeah some of the
bigger some of the big artic herds I
mean they don't all get in one place at
one time but there they are recognized
as a herd they get into the hundreds of
thousands hmm they're very cyclic the
population goes up and down
but you know they're in there in certain
places and if they're not where you are
you're in the Sahara Desert then when
they show up it's like the Serengeti
Plain I mean all of a sudden there's
caribou everywhere you step outside you
hear the antlers all over the the valley
if it's like in October when they're
running you hear the wolves howl and
Ravens croak and it's like what the hell
happened I hadn't heard anything for the
last two months and all of a sudden look
at that oh my god yeah we're looking at
an enormous pack of caribou what do they
call them the compacts hurt herd
enormous herd of caribou look at all
those
yeah it's in the summer now in the
summer they're up on the north side you
god that's insane
it's so big still a neat huh I've sat
there at the cabin looking out at the
lake and caribou walking across the lake
moving all the time and I estimated at
one moment I could see 800 on the lake
Wow
yeah a lot of caribou like the way I
hunt them sometimes is to run around out
there on the lake with them really yeah
like um can you pull up a picture on
Facebook or you can't do that this
there's one of me running in a caribou
herd and you're not saying why right on
the front page there it's like the
pictures that you can leave up all the
time what do they call them not in the
note section no it's right on the you
ran with them and that's how you were
hunting them echo chasing the car I told
you how I used to study a lot of
anthropology I used to listen to
anything that I could hear about how
people used to live in the old days and
especially the Inuit and people living
up north there was this this interposed
Austin Bullock see he made some films
back in 1960s of the Netsilik people the
Netsilik Eskimo series is called is
fascinating
he went up Budhia Peninsula in northern
Canada and filmed people that still knew
how to do things in very primitive ways
and one thing I learned from those films
was how they would hunt caribou and the
way these people would hunt caribou is
there only be you know a few hunters
they're build the little stone nuke
sucks that comps like a scarecrow make a
line going down toward the lake so it
looks like people then the few hunters
would move around and they would use
their voice their yell and their echo
their voice around it confuse the
caribou and chase them into a lake that
way they could use their voice to get
them down there and then one guy in a
kayak can overtake the caribou and spear
him it's amazing but you of our self
yeah but this is something you can use
by yourself you can use this technique
of using your voice to confuse caribou
and herd them where you want them to go
you echo out on the lake if their
caribou it's wide open they can see me
half a mile away and they'll go out in
the middle of the lake in the day and
stand around out there if I try walking
up to him a few hundred yards away they
might just take off yeah as loud as I
can yell and project my voice over to an
island or shoreline depending on where I
am and it'll bounce back and they'll
stop and they'll run straight back at me
wow I've had him come running by me
where trisha was like oh my god she
thought I was gonna get run over she was
filming once and I could hear when I
watched the video and she's like I think
he's gonna get run over you know she's
like really would you see that picture
there Jane it's it's right on the yeah
scroll up the top right there the upper
leftmost picture yeah okay Trisha took
that picture Wow
so now those caribou those caribou they
were running away from me before this
picture was taken and I screaming and
hollering echoing my voice off the
shoreline and they turn around and run
back and I do many times I had these
caribou run back and forth like five six
times I could stay within fifty yards of
them a lot of times just by yelling as
loud as I could you look really close
right there
yeah well Trisha thought I was gonna get
you know trampled and so this is how you
hunted them this is a technique I've
used for hunting but on this particular
day I was just demonstrating it now did
you run into any issues where you really
didn't have any vegetables other than
the the vegetables in the stomach
six of the animals you were just eating
meat did you run any health issues just
living off a meat I've eaten a very high
protein high fat diet for long periods
of time and I think that there's a lot
more to food than nutrition the reason I
was eating that way had nothing to do
with me thinking that it was the best
diet the reason I was eating that way is
because I just wanted to live as close
to that environment as possible and
that's what was available right so I
know some people are thinking well this
is a really healthy diet maybe it is
maybe isn't but that wasn't my
motivation what I yield how would I when
you had a good amount of it what I felt
was that if I ate too much meat it had
bad effects what kind of bad I believe I
believe my body started to feel weird I
believe that you can only handle so much
protein but you can handle a lot of fat
what I found is I had to eat most of my
calories from fat I would eat a half a
pound of solid pure fat a day when I was
eating just meat and fat I might eat two
or three even four pounds of meat a day
but but like a half a pound of it was
pure fat and weight but it was the form
of it was a bear fat or were you getting
your fat from it would be moose fat it
would be sheep fat something one year it
was bare fiber fat is weird right
because it's a different caribou fun
chewy fat like a deer fat so it's
actually but you know I'm saying it's
like it's not like like it doesn't
render down like beef fat wood moose fat
yeah oh sure
does render you can render it if you
want I rendered along it's a different
like the way you look at it on the
animal it just seems different what's
different about it is that those game
animals do not put on fat within the
muscle right it's separate right if you
get a fat moose he'll have a big fat
layer on his back and so you would
render that fat or that's how you do I
mean I'll eat it all the way when I'm
butchering the moose in the field I
start eating the fat right there
really sure Wow grab it off the kidneys
and stuff and start eating it so that
was the key for you was to get enough
fat I had to eat a lot of fat
and then I would feel better if if
you're just eating protein for me it
didn't work like what what how did it
make you feel it made me feel like I had
drink an awful lot of water whenever I
like you had to drink an awful lot yeah
I drink a lot of water or I'd feel kind
of like just a weird feeling inside I
mean that I also you know is working
really hard physically at those times
but I definitely drinking more than a
gallon of water a day sometimes almost
two gallons of water a day when I'd be
like in real cold weather climbing
mountains and everything eating meat and
fat all the time mmm yeah I've been
drinking a lot of water and the other
thing that's really important to me like
when I hear people talking about how
they eat a high meat diet or ketogenic
diet now and they're just eating beef
mm-hmm I wonder you know what they're
doing for a variety because for me I was
eating all different parts of the animal
all the different organs and things and
also a lot of it I'd eat raw or half
dried for example was one of my favorite
ways to eat caribou meat when I was
eating you know this meat fat diet now I
eat more vegetables and fruits and and I
still like to eat a lot of meat but I do
eat more vegetables and fruits you feel
better that way
personally yeah I like more I like
variety
I like a mix I mean I felt good when I
was eating that stuff but like I say I
would eat I would not feel good if I was
just eating steaks every day right if I
was just eating steaks every day I would
I would feel strange but if I took a
caribou backstrap and I just sliced it
up thin and hung it over the wood stove
and left it there for half a day or
something would get a little you know
dry on the outside but it'd still be raw
inside that stuff was delicious I'd be
like candy for me I just pig out I love
that and what we do with the crust eat
it oh you mean you mean the crust on big
pieces that have been hanging around all
winter yeah that gets turned into bait
that gets fed to the animals okay if
it's do you ever try to eat that
the only crust that because that's where
the oxidized blood is basically it turns
really dark will get almost black
sometimes they'll be for some reason
like down around the shank on on a big
animal like a moose when you're cutting
it
into smaller pieces the crust looks so
clean and everything down there you can
eat it like dry meat but most of the
crust on most of the big sections of
meat get black and they get I would
knock through that food it gets like
it's it's not the same as dry meat that
you take a fresh piece of meat and dry
it for a few days this is coming from a
guy who eat the contents of animal
stomachs so I trust you sometimes when
you say it's not meat
it's not food don't eat it not that not
that black crusted it's just blood it's
oxidized blood yeah
blood is good but you want your blood
real fresh right yeah like that's the
thing with blood is like a lot of times
I haven't even been able to eat the
blood from an animal because I'm just
too busy but that's the thing is it you
can eat the stomach you can eat the
intestine you can eat the coal and I've
eaten the colon of a moose you can eat
the lungs even you can eat spleen I've
eaten all the stuff but the truth is if
you're one guy working alone butchering
a moose you have a hard time getting all
that stuff preserved and prepared you
know yeah cuz it like if you want to eat
the colon you want to get the shit out
of it fast before it gets hard like a
big boy
what is the colon of a moves taste like
Oh donkey no it's great cuz well when
you do it right all it is is fat it's
just it's like doughnuts it's like fat
don't you slice it what you do if you
want to eat the clone of mooses old guy
that was married to an Eskimo told me
this and it works you uh you got to work
fast when you when you take the colon
out of your next out try this out Joe
okay turn it inside out the poop awful
sock turning inside out like a sock okay
you got the outside you got the inside
out it's all smooth right you know how
the outside of the colon to the large
intestine is full of fat like on any
animal you know there's all this fat
that's gonna be on the inside now you
just wash that you know take it home and
wash it good get it get the lining all
nice and clean then you slice it like
doughnuts and fry it up and what it
tastes like delicious does anything that
resembles that would resonate with
people that it's like good most fat Wow
there's all different kinds of fat I
have a hard time describing exact taste
what does it taste the people always ask
me that well you might think I'm mousse
: yeah I'm saying there might be four
other people that know what that tastes
like
oh no no you up go up in some village in
northern Alaska a lot of evil old people
you know you find old people eat stuff
like they've grown up you know 70 80
year old native people there's a lot of
people today that follow carnivore diet
and that they just eat animal products
and meat but they're eating mostly
domestic steak then it's got a lot of
fat in it already
yeah yeah that's true that would be
different I haven't tried that but I
will say that I feel very different
eating beef from wild animals there's a
huge difference huge difference
yeah huge like and you just look at a
that beef cattle like they're they look
lethargic mm-hmm compared to a wild
animal
they're obviously overweight they've
been pretty much just bread and fed to
be fat and you look at that and it's
somehow it doesn't feel like that animal
is gonna be as healthy to me to put into
my body as a caribou running around wild
like those ones we're just looking at
picture of no it's not as healthy it's
the mean gram for gram ounce for ounce
it you take a caribou or an a moose it's
much more protein this is it's much much
more dense material but much denser meat
it's way less fat it's just a completely
different experience it it makes you
feel different when you eat it there's a
feeling that you get from wild game
that's like a almost like a stimulant
you know there's like a little bit of a
woo oh and it's what you did to get it
yep that too it's connected to I mean
you get that but it just tastes so good
after you did all that work yeah there's
nothing like it there's nothing like it
and you know when I guess the closest
you could get us to bison you know if
you buy store-bought bison it's pretty
close to what it would be if it was wild
you know if it's just grazing you know
as long as it has that yellow fat that
they get when they're they're grazing
do you know anybody who's tried that for
their kind of or diet like only e bison
is something closer to a wild animal no
I only know a couple people that are
doing it and they're all doing domestic
ribeyes and stuff like that you know
just getting a lot of fatty meats
I love ribeye steak but to just live on
that I don't know how that would be I
never tried just living on that yeah I'm
watching these people like waiting for
the shoe to drop
you know like waiting for them to
develop health issues waiting for this
it's weird it's like a it's very much
like like vegans in a way where they're
completely committed to this idea and
any other ideas stupid and they they're
just already ideological hardliners with
meat and they think that vegetables are
bad for you and you shouldn't beaten
vegetables but despite all the evidence
to the contrary and then the same thing
with vegans vegans want to think that
this is the only way to eat the only way
to think eat is with vegetables if you
eat meat it's bad for you but meat kills
you right
people have been eating meat for
literally all of time 97% of the
population of the planet eats meat it's
crazy to think that meats bad for you
meat is one of the reasons why we're
human what's bad for you most likely
according to basically every study that
we've ever done when they look at like
meat eaters versus people not eating
meat what they don't dissect is what are
the other things these meat eaters are
eating and what kind of meat are they
eating either eating a sandwich from a
fast food place a cheeseburger with
fries and a shake and soda with a lot of
sugar in it is that the meat eater or
are they doing what you did you know are
they eating
you know fresh caribou are they eating
you know what are they eating
after spending a whole winter out there
living primarily on meat and fat and
very small amount of wild plant food
gathered maybe 15 20 gallons of berries
in the fall had some dried leaves from
the spring before willow leaves had a
few roots but the roots they're very
small so I'm eating 90% meat and fat at
least for my calories I got my
cholesterol checked next time I came
Tyler just curious I hadn't had a check
for many years and I thought what am i
doing you know eating all this fat I
mean
like half a pound of fat a day might be
really bad and my total cholesterol
level was 138 it's a good that's really
low in fact the doctor checked it said
it 200 I think is like high to hundreds
borderline high or something and the
doctor checked it said you that's the
lowest cholesterol I've ever checked any
test ever cuz I told him I'm a little
bit scared I've been eating so much fat
this year like unbelievable amounts of
fat yeah but you're spending so much
time burning energy the amount of energy
that you must get from hiking 20 miles a
day in the mountains you know at
elevation wandering around the woods
stepping over logs all the kind of stuff
you have to do
you're burning off an incredible amount
of calories it has to be just routine
activities - you want to get water yeah
you go out there and open up that hole
through the ice with a chisel you know
and you carry your water every day you
disloyal that water - no you don't know
no beavers up that high I saw one beaver
in that Lake in 20 years you take a risk
there are few beavers in the general
region but it's like the limit of their
habitat okay
so far north and so far up in the
mountains yeah when we were at Prince of
Wales we drank right out of the lake
yeah just dunk dunk your cooler or your
thermos into the lake and just start
drinking I was like that's crazy I feel
so weird I drink out of puddles
do you really up in the mountains
there's no other water sometimes you
find a little puddle in the tundra I
never got sick from drinking water out
there it can happen I know two people
that got Giardia but they they were both
like old timers that had lived most of
their life out there in the Brooks Range
and they each had had it one time what
do you want to do now not or not you're
not doing the show anymore they sort of
yeah good question you know my contract
just ran out two months ago and I've
been thinking a lot about this because I
love the wilderness I love nature and I
absolutely love sharing it with people
and I want to find new ways to do that
and there are a lot of new ways now I
mean that's what inspired me seeing your
show is like wow I mean I presume that
you don't have to ask anybody about what
you put on here right no you can do what
you want that's why you're here that's
why I'm have to go through a series of
producers and I would never do that if
we ever got to a point where they wanted
to offer me like a gigantic chunk of
money to put it on the network but they
had to pick the gas I've been like
there's no chance right there's no
chance this is not a chance in hell the
beautiful thing about the freedom that
comes with this show is I can talk to
people that I find interesting
like I found you incredibly interesting
your your story's amazing when I would
watch you on the show I'd be like wow
I'd love to talk to that guy really yeah
man
like so when you reached out I was
pumped oh yeah yeah what a crazy I was
like man is Joe Rogan gonna want to talk
to me he's talking all these big-time
celebrities oh I would like to talk to
you probably more than a lot of the
big-time celebrities some of the some of
the big-time air-quote celebrities that
I talked to it's just like oh okay I'll
do it
you know so that's my feeling on it I
don't do like the the show bites this
show by itself has become popular
through whatever reason for whatever
reason I don't know how it happened it
just did right but I never think like oh
if I get this guest that will be really
popular this will help the show grow
this will bring me to another level I
don't think that way ever
that's awesome my thought is always that
guy be cool to talk to like oh I'd like
to talk to her she seems interesting oh
that guy's got a weird life what the
fuck was that like like I'm it's all a
hundred percent genuine curiosity that's
awesome you're doing something that most
people don't get to do which is what you
really want to do you do what you want
to do yeah that's the beautiful thing
about it is that I found out a way to
also do it where people enjoy it
we're like it actually provides a
service so folks are driving they have a
long trip or they're on a flight they
can actually get it it's free and it
gives you something and there's a lot of
wisdom being conveyed by some of your
guests I mean that's what got me
interests in the shows I'm here as
people talking it's you know today just
did - there's a lot of free education
out there for people on the internet
yeah and you know it opens up whole new
possibilities it does and conversations
like this although you know they're not
technically education they expand your
horizons yeah they expand your
understanding of how people are living
their life and just hearing people
genuinely talk hearing people have real
conversations without anybody
interfering or anybody Jim I hate Glenn
maybe it'd be interesting if you're just
like a little bit more mysterious you
know we need a you know what we're gonna
get you an outfit we're gonna you you're
gonna show up to the Joe Rogan show with
a fur coat that you made yourself with
isn't it interesting that all the time I
was on TV and that show did really well
you know I never came down and talked to
you but then on our own we connected
yeah it is interesting interest yeah
well life's weird the way things happen
and when they happen and why they happen
that way it's like yeah but as far as
what I'm gonna do next yeah you know I
want to keep experiencing these things
which to me are precious and rare I want
to keep going out into the wilderness I
want to keep experienced in it and I
want to share it with people it doesn't
mean anything to me if I don't share to
people anymore I have no desire to go
live by myself in the woods and not talk
to anybody it seems like you could have
a skeleton crew of cameraman editor you
yeah and put it on like YouTube that's
what I've thought about yeah I think
that's a move man because you can make
real money off of youtube now I mean
obviously see these YouTube celebrities
they're very wealthy and they're just
doing things on YouTube and you could
just transfer your show over to YouTube
and I guarantee you people would watch I
mean 100% definitely would need a camera
I definitely would need a cameraman
editor yeah cameraman and editor so it's
like a three-person crew so all the
stuff that you had to deal with with all
these other folks that weren't even
there these producers that were saying
they wanted to fire you and all that
other shit you wouldn't have to deal
with that at all it would basically and
if you had an idea like hey I want
try this I want to make my own bow and
arrow and go shoot a caribou with it you
know and do it with traditional methods
and use the tendons from animals to make
the strings and all the stuff that like
the Native Americans did you could do
that like you could you could do we can
do whatever you want you can do whatever
you want and that's what I think will be
really appealing to people because just
like if you started a podcast or just
like anything else where there's no one
telling you what to do you get to find
out who the person really is mm-hmm
you know and I think that would that
would be a great way to give you all the
freedom that you want where you know I'm
sure it wouldn't be hard to get enough
advertiser dollars to pay for an editor
and pay for a cameraman and and put it
up there and start generating revenue
yeah some guys are really good like you
know Les Stroud used to film himself a
lot yeah I tried that a little bit but I
can't film myself it's like I need the
interaction yeah les les is I mean he's
the only one that really did that
without any horseshit that live in the
woods for seven days and survive off for
whatever scraps he could find and find
some sort of scenario that they piece
together for the show you know the the
reason why Bear Grylls happened the
whole reason why that guy I got a shows
cuz they were trying to tell les to fake
things oh really and you wouldn't think
anything he's like I'm not gonna do that
way so they got let's get this fucking
guy so he would just go along with them
Bear Grylls just slept in a hotel he'd
pretend he drinking his own piss all
that stuff les is out there really
surviving that way when you would see he
would do like a seven-day trip and maybe
he would find no food and by the end of
that seven days you could see how much
weight he had lost I mean he looked
terrible and then he would get rescued
as per you know how that he would have
to go to a drop-off point or a pickup
point but now he's all 'bigfoot les is
gone gone crazy Bigfoot a hundred
percent I get more questions about
Bigfoot what is it you live in the woods
and you're supposed to be running into
Bigfoot you're supposed to be a Bigfoot
authority to two questions people are
always asking about global warming I'm
not a scientist and Bigfoot right I mean
I'm not a scientist but you said you did
notice that the ice is thick yes yeah
anecdotally I can say that it's
definitely warmer where I am
compared to what it was 15 years ago the
winners have been warmer but how many
years in the room have they been warmer
oh I didn't keep the data because I know
there are a lot of sign is keeping it
and those are the people I'm gonna defer
to on global warming right and I believe
in global warming I mean I believe in
the consensus of scientific opinion what
I've seen personally is just overall
the ice is thinner on my lake and that's
a sign that over the whole course of the
winter
they've been milder winters 15 years ago
I'd get around 4 feet of ice now the
last few winters have been times when I
went out there in April which is when it
says thickest and there's only two and a
half feet of ice and I'm like wow that's
crazy I never saw them you know 10 to 15
years ago the other thing is the
absolute coldest temperatures since I've
been out there three times it went to
colder than 60 below zero they were all
the first couple winters first two or
three winters I don't know if that was
just you know coincidence or what I'm
not saying this is global warming I'm
just telling you what I've seen and like
given recent winters where the coldest
had ever got was you know once or twice
to 45 below one of the first winners I
was out there in March for like two
weeks it never went above 40 below I
haven't seen anything like that in the
last four or five winters hmm since I
got on the show the coldest temperature
we ever saw was one time it went down to
about 50 55 below one day for a little
while I've seen times like I said where
it would literally not go about 40 below
for two weeks in March mmm that was
first or second euros out there so I
said anecdotally yeah that's just look
we got a we got a defer to science on
this thing I mean they're collecting
data all over the world you can see the
Arctic oceans there's less ice you can
you know measure the temperature of the
ocean by sending sound waves through it
you can there's all different methods so
it doesn't really matter what one person
sees in one place but there's a
consensus of opinion
that's what matters yeah but it is
interesting your your own anecdotal
experience seeing that the ice is that
much thinner and the winters are warmer
it is just I'm sure the National Weather
Service has all
kinds of data on a lot Shore sure I mean
wait for instance in Fairbanks Alaska
they never used to use any salt on the
roads at all the reason being that it
was too cold for the salt to work salt
will only melt ice if it's a certain
temperature if it gets colder than that
it doesn't work so they didn't even
store salt there the department
transportation didn't use it which was
nice your vehicles didn't trust out but
now there are enough times in the winter
when it's warm enough that they actually
are using salt in recent years on the
roads of Fairbanks and you actually see
times when it gets up to freezing
there's even freezing rain events in the
winter which didn't use to happen hardly
ever and now that's not that outlandish
to have it you know get up to two
freezing in the middle of the winter
some days Bigfoot what about Bigfoot I
just can't believe people waste their
time talking about stuff like that
well first someone like you actually
lives in the wilderness and you actually
live in Alaska which is one of the
places where people supposedly spot
Bigfoot yeah it's because a lot of nutty
people go to Alaska they call them end
of the rotors yeah you drive until you
can't go any further and then you camp
out in the woods for a while and see
Bigfoot yeah
does Les Stroud really see Bigfoot see
how I don't think he's ever seen that
she believes it's out there his show sad
it makes me sad because he was like a
really respected guy doing the survival
thing and you know I think it was a
really interesting educational show and
it showed people how hard it is but then
he got hooked up with this guy and he
was filming these Bigfoot shows and the
guy is completely full of shit there's
no like a fucking he's wearing a mask
pretending to be Bigfoot in the woods
filming it the high-resolution it looks
so fake you should see the show the fake
cuz it's so dumb it's so dumb it hurts
your feelings like you're like what
you're doing this Hey but it's real
popular that's the problem if you have
like a survivor show you might get X
amount of people to watch it if you have
a Bigfoot show you might get double the
number what's that tell you about our
culture not good look at this this is
the video footage this is he said
they said this is a close-up
high-resolution of Bigfoot look look at
that thing
how fake is that he's gonna zoom in on
it it says the Todd standing Bigfoot
video as seen in survivor man Bigfoot
show with Les Stroud what's going on are
the people that are watching this stuff
actually believing it or they just find
it entertaining
there's people so stupid it's fun Calma
sitting on their couch sitting in front
of TV thinking about when they're gonna
go to bed or look how dumb that looks
man look at this fucking stupid fake
Bigfoot face and they're there sitting
there going well they wish it was real
they wish it was yeah they wish it was
want it to be real they want there to be
some large primate living by itself in
the forest a small number of them not
that many just a small number of them
know some crazy stuff but it wasn't
Bigfoot well here's the thing if there
were Bigfoot why wouldn't there be
thousands of them all over the place
what's gonna stop Bigfoot from breeding
Bigfoot would beat the fuck out of a
bear kill Mountain wine like what would
stop a Bigfoot you're talking about an
eight to ten foot tall gorilla what the
hell would stop dad that would be the
king of the phone what would stop us
from seeing the thing and it won't stop
us from finding a body yeah would stop
us from finding bones
yeah just cuz skeletons I mean how about
an ancient one you know you know what in
a site like you know when they find
these mastodons and saber-tooth Tigers
and things that existed here ten
thousand years ago why don't they find a
Bigfoot
okay Emma I can't believe it it's it's
amazing what people just think how
productive we would all be the society
if people were putting their energy into
something more worthwhile than Bigfoot
yeah well you could say that same thing
about just surfing Twitter yeah how many
how many people are just reading just
mindless tweets over and over you're
looking for something it's gonna
stimulate them that never comes their
way hours a day you ever looked at like
I looked at my phone the other day I had
four I was embarrassed I had four hours
of screen time during the day four hours
I'm like what could I have some of it
was answering text messages some of it
was answering emails
let's be honest that might have been an
hour so like three hours of me just
fucking off I could have been writing
jokes I could have been you know
researching things I could have been I
could have been doing a million things I
clean mic
gotta clean this desk I've done a lot of
shit it's kind of cluttered oh my god
dude people keep bringing me things just
stack them up there you know what I used
to really like Charlie Rose remember his
show sure it's two guys sitting around
table talking yes I kind of when I
discovered you I thought I wonder if
this guy ever saw Charlie Rose if you
were inspired by no I never watched his
show
I was I was really interested because he
had interesting guess mm-hmm you know no
I've seen um clips I'm sure I've seen
clips of him talking I think he got in
some trouble
yeah he liked to show his hog it was uh
being a little loose with the ladies
yeah thing was like women he's working
with said he was harassing him yeah
shocker yeah that's too bad yeah what it
was it was an interesting show it was
one of the few TV shows I used to like
when I was younger when I had TV well
there was a time where you know I think
it was really difficult to get people to
sit down and have a conversation and so
a show like is or any kind of show where
people are just sitting down having a
conversation particularly without an
audience like a lot of these talk shows
you see it's the most unnatural
environment of all time you're sitting
sideways facing a crowd of people that
you don't know with lights and cameraman
everywhere and you're supposed to act
normal yeah like it's the least normal
you're ever gonna act you know but those
are good too like Phil Donahue remember
him oh yeah sure I used to watch it sure
yeah yeah that was the same I even talk
about something Dick Cavett never see
the old Dick Cavett shows is really
interesting from the 60s and 70s a
little bit yeah well there's videos of
I've watched almost all of them on
YouTube but it's it's cool it sounds
like conversation people like
conversations because they like to know
how other people are thinking and they
kind of decipher that and piece it
together through listening to people
talk yeah listen man I hope you do your
thing on YouTube or somewhere else like
that where they give you control I think
that would be the really the ultimate
thing for you to not have produced look
if I had what you were going through at
any point this podcast I probably quit
if I had producers telling me what to do
and how to argue with the network about
what kind of guests to have on or you
know what you know like we have to
review a show why did you talk like this
why did you say that I would have never
got here
it would never it would have never
happened don't worry reason why this
happened was because the time I created
it aligned with technology and it
aligned with the ability to get things
out in this way mass scale that just
didn't exist previously you know and I
think that could be expanded to what you
do easily especially YouTube something
like that or Vimeo or many amenities of
the streaming services doing something
like that we just have a cameraman and
you just have an editor and you and
you're out there I mean be magic perfect
and you can give the a hundred percent
full vision of you you know you don't
have to you know you have to have
anybody else's input give the vision of
what's out there
yeah and then you also have a direct
line to your fans like if you put it on
Facebook and like people that like it or
don't like it hey Glen I'm tired of
seeing you shit in the woods you know
that's the amazing thing about this
world is that people can connect yeah
yeah it's it's phenomenal yeah it's
amazing
listen man has been cool to connect with
you I really enjoyed this a lot of fun
you know we do like three and a half
hours thanks for having me down oh
really I wasn't paying attention
it's almost 3:30 it's a long show yeah
it's great though man I really enjoyed
it
if people want to find you on Facebook
please tell them how yeah I'm on
Facebook Glen Villa new VI L le and E
you ve or new to Instagram I got
everything but I'm most active on
Facebook that's what I mean what is your
Instagram under my name everything's
just under everything is just your one
name okay yeah thanks Glen that was fun
thanks a lot you all right man bye
everybody
we did it man wow that is different when
you